O3a Tenancy Agreement for a temporary term of five years or less contract number: K  – C   
THE UNDERSIGNED: 
 
Stichting Woonbedrijf SWS.Hhvl, registered under Chamber of Commerce number 17058500, with 
principal place of business at Wal 2, 5611 GG Eindhoven, hereinafter referred to as ‘the landlord’, 
 
and 
 

 
date of birth:  
hereinafter referred to as ‘the tenant’, 
 
WHEREAS: 

•  
this tenancy agreement will be governed by Article 228(1), Book 7 of the Dutch Civil Code, 
meaning that this tenancy agreement will end, without any notice of termination being 
required, upon expiry of the agreed term, provided that the written notice has been sent to the 
tenant in good time; 
 
•  
the tenant will retain his/her registration in order to qualify for other accommodation; 
 
•  
upon termination of this tenancy agreement, the tenant will not be entitled to replacement 
accommodation and/or any contribution towards removal and fit-out costs; 
 
DECLARE THAT THEY HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
Rented housing 
 
Article 1 
 
1.1 
The landlord will let to the tenant, as the tenant will rent 
a.   in the building located at  in , and  
b. the kitchen / toilet / shower room / entrance / corridor(s) / storage space / equipment / etc. that are 

intended for communal use in the aforementioned building. 
The tenant accepts the rent of the room(s). 
The rent concerns the room(s) including appurtenances and the joint use of any green strips and 
gardens surrounding the complex, which must be considered appurtenances, and the joint use of any 
communal areas and group areas, hereinafter referred to as: ‘the rented housing’. A description of the 
rented housing [together with inventory if let fully or semi-furnished] is attached as Schedule 1. This 
schedule forms an integral part of this agreement. 
1.2. 
The right to use the area(s) referred to under b. and their facilities accrues simultaneously to the 
tenant and the tenants of the other rooms with due regard for each other’s rights. 
 
Designated use of the rented housing 
 
Article 2 
The rented housing is exclusively intended to serve as non-self-contained accommodation for 
occupation by the tenant only. 
 
 
 


Rental period 
 
Article 3 
3.1 
The lease was entered into with effect from for the specified period of months and therefore ends by 
operation of law on . 
3.2 
This tenancy agreement may be terminated by the tenant before expiry of the agreed limited period 
with effect from a day agreed for payment of the rent. 
3.3 
The landlord will notify the tenant in writing of the day of expiry of the tenancy period not sooner than 
three months but not later than one month before expiry of such limited period.  
3.4 
If, due to circumstances not attributable to the landlord, the rented housing is made available to the 
tenant later, this later availability date will be considered to be the agreed date and there will be no 
question of any breach on the part of the landlord. 

 
Rent payable by the tenant 
 
Article 4 
4.1. 
Commencing on the effective date of the tenancy, the tenant must pay a monthly rent of €.  
This rent consists of the basic rent and the advance on the service charges. The service charges 
are a payment for goods and services delivered. These goods and services will be further specified 
in this agreement. 
 
 
4.2. 
 
The basic rent payable by the tenant amounts to 
€ 
 
 
The basic rent will be adjusted annually in the manner permitted by law. 
4.3.  
 
The monthly advance for the service charges 
amounts to 

€ 
 
 

 
 
This amount is comprised as follows: 
 
a. ‘Housing service charges’, payment of goods and services delivered in relation to the occupation 
of the rented housing 
 
Total 

 
€ 

    

 
 
b. ‘Funds’, payment of goods and services delivered in relation to the occupation of the rented 
housing 
  
Total 
€  
 

 
 

c. “Miscellaneous services”, payment of goods and services delivered unrelated to the 
occupation of the rented housing. 
Not applicable. 
 

 

4.4 
 
The tenant must pay the full rent payable for the rented housing, in advance, before the first of 
the month. The tenant must provide the landlord with a direct debit mandate for his/her account 
in respect of the amount payable. The tenant must ensure, and warrant, that there are sufficient 
funds in his/her account at that moment.  
In any case, payment can also be affected by payment to the account of the landlord. 

 


One-time costs and deposit  

Article 5  

The cost of deposit, cleaning and bed linen is already paid when the room is booked. The deposit will 
be paid to the student in full if there is no damage or rent arrears at the end of the agreement. In order 
for the payment to go properly, we ask the student to notify us of his/her choice via the refund deposit 
form, which we will send as soon as there is a rental termination. Any damage and/or rent arrears will 
be deducted from the deposit. If this exceeds the deposit, the student is still required to pay the 
outstanding amount. 
 
Election of domicile by tenant 
 
Article 6 
The tenant declares to have elected domicile in the rented housing for the duration of the tenancy 
agreement. 
The tenant declares that he/she will be recorded in the population register of the municipality in which 
the rented housing is located. 
At the termination of the tenancy agreement, the tenant will notify the landlord in writing of his/her new 
address. 
 
Power of attorney in case of death 
 
Article 7 
By signing this tenancy agreement, the tenant gives the landlord an irrevocable power of attorney to 
enter and clear the rented housing if he/she dies, there is no co-tenant who continues the tenancy 
agreement and the rented housing has not been vacated by the end of the second full calendar month 
following the month in which the death occurred. The landlord is entitled to bring all movable property 
located in the rented housing due to the tenant under its control and to dispose of that property at its 
discretion.  
The tenant hereby explicitly states that this power of attorney will not lapse on his/her death. 
 
General terms and conditions for tenancy and special terms and conditions 
 
Article 8 
8.1. 
This agreement will be governed by the landlord's General Terms and Conditions of Housing Tenancy 
dated 1 November 2004 ( Schedule 2 ). The parties are familiar with the content of the General Terms 
and Conditions of Tenancy. These terms and conditions form an integral part of this agreement. The 
tenant declares that he/she received a copy of the General Terms and Conditions of Tenancy at the 
signing of this agreement. 
8.2.1.  
In lieu of article 6.2.7 of the general conditions: Without prior written permission from the landlord, the 
tenant is not permitted to keep animals in or on the rented housing that could cause a nuisance or 
inconvenience for the neighbours or the living environment.  
8.2.2.  
Without prior written permission from the landlord, the tenant is not permitted to make changes to the 
furnished part of the rented housing, if applicable, the paintwork or the other rented movables, if 
applicable.   
8.2.3.   
After the end of the tenancy period, the rented housing must be returned cleaned and empty – other 
than for the rented items, if applicable – by the tenant or on their instructions. Any costs that the 


landlord has to incur due to the failure of the tenant to fulfil his/her obligations in this regard will be 
owed by the tenant to the landlord and recovered by the landlord from the tenant. 

Provision of information on household income and family composition  
 
Article 9 
9.1 
The tenant declares that the information on his/her household income and family composition that 
he/she has provided to the landlord before commencement of the tenancy agreement is accurate and 
complete. 
9.2 
If the tenant provides inaccurate or incomplete information and he/she would not have qualified for the 
rented housing had he/she provided accurate and complete information, the tenant will be required to 
vacate the rented accommodation upon the landlord's demand. If the tenant fails to do so, the landlord 
will initiate legal proceedings seeking eviction. 
 
 
Schedules to this contract  
 
Article 10 
The tenant confirms receipt of the following: 

- 
General Terms and Conditions of Housing Tenancy dated 1 November 2004  
- 
Annex good landlord act  
- 
Minor Repairs (Tenant's Liability) Decree  
- 
Instruction for the use of your tap water installation 
 
The schedules referred to in this article form part of the tenancy agreement. 
 
Drawn up and signed in duplicate in Eindhoven on ..  . 
 

Tenant 
Landlord 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Rental manager 

In case of minor   
his legal representative (name + signature)  
 
 
Please note! This is the English translation of the tenancy agreement, please sign the Dutch version of 
the original tenancy agreement. 
 
Version of January 2019 

1 

General conditions of the contract 

The contract consists of a purchase order and these general conditions. If there is any conflict 
between different provisions in this contract, the following rules must be applied: 

(a)   The provisions set out in the purchase order take precedence over those set out in 
general conditions;  

(b)   The provisions set out in the general conditions take precedence over those  set out in 
the tender specifications;  

(c)   The provisions set out in the tender specifications take precedence over those set out 
in the contractor’s tender.  

All documents issued by the contractor (end-user agreements, general terms and conditions, 
etc.) except its tender are held inapplicable, unless explicitly mentioned in the special 
conditions of this contract. In all circumstances, in the event of contradiction between this 
contract and documents issued by the contractor, this contract prevails, regardless of any 
provision to the contrary in the contractor’s documents. 

1.   D EFINITIONS  

For the purpose of this contract, the following definitions (indicated in  italics  in the text) 
apply: 

‘Back office’ : the internal system(s) used by the parties to process electronic invoices;  

‘Breach of obligations’:  failure by the contractor to fulfil one or more of its contractual 
obligations.  

‘Confidential information or document’ : any information or document received by either 
party from the other or accessed by either party in the context of the  performance of the 
contract,  that any of the parties has identified in writing as confidential. It may not include 
information that is publicly available; 

‘Conflict of interest’ : a situation where the impartial and objective  performance of the 
contract  by the contractor is compromised for reasons involving family, emotional life, 
political or national affinity, economic interest, any other direct or indirect personal interest,   
or any other shared interest with the contracting authority or any third party related to the 
subject matter of the contract; 

‘Creator’ : means any natural person who contributes to the production of the  result ; 

‘EDI   message’  (electronic data interchange): a message created and exchanged through the 
electronic transfer, from computer to computer, of commercial and administrative data using 
an agreed standard; 

‘e-PRIOR’ : the service-oriented communication platform that provides a series of web 
services and allows the exchange of standardised electronic messages and documents between 
the parties. This is done either through web services, with a machine-to-machine connection 
between the parties’  back office  systems ( EDI messages ), or through a web application (the 
s upplier portal ). The Platform may be used to exchange electronic documents (e-documents) 
such as electronic requests for services, electronic specific contracts, and electronic 
acceptance of services or electronic invoices between the parties.  


Version of January 2019 

2 

‘Force majeure’ : any unforeseeable, exceptional situation or event beyond the control of the 
parties that prevents either of them from fulfilling any of their obligations under the contract. 
The situation or event must not be attributable to error or   negligence on the part of the parties 
or on the part of the subcontractors and must prove to be inevitable despite their exercising 
due diligence. Defaults of service, defects in equipment or material or delays in making them 
available, labour disputes, strikes and financial difficulties may not be invoked as  force 
majeure , unless they stem directly from a relevant case of  force majeure ;  

‘Formal notification’  (or ‘formally notify’): form of communication between the parties 
made in writing by mail or email, which provides the sender with compelling evidence that 
the message was delivered to the specified recipient;  

‘Fraud’:  an act or omission committed in order to make an unlawful gain for the perpetrator 
or another by causing a loss to the Union’s financial interests, and relating to: i) the use or 
presentation of false, incorrect or incomplete statements or documents,  which has as its effect 
the misappropriation or wrongful retention of funds or assets from the Union budget, ii) the 
non-disclosure of information in violation of a specific obligation, with the same effect or iii) 
the misapplication of such funds or assets for purposes other than those for which they were 
originally granted, which damages the Union's financial interests;  

'Grave professional misconduct':  a violation of applicable laws or regulations or ethical 
standards of the profession to which a contractor or a related person belongs, including any 
conduct leading to sexual or other exploitation or abuse, or any wrongful conduct of the 
contractor or a related person which has an impact on its professional credibility where such 
conduct denotes wrongful intent or gross negligence. 

 ‘Interface control document’ : the guideline document which lays down the technical 
specifications, message standards, security standards, checks of syntax and semantics, etc. to 
facilitate machine-to-machine connection. This document is updated on a regular basis;  

‘Irregularity’ : any infringement of a provision of Union law resulting from an act or 
omission by an economic operator, which has, or would have, the effect of prejudicing the 
Union’s budget. 

‘Notification’  (or ‘notify’): form of communication between the parties made in writing 
including by electronic means;  

‘Performance of the contract’ : the execution of tasks and delivery of the purchased services 
by the contractor to the contracting authority;  

‘Personnel’ : persons employed directly or indirectly or contracted by the contractor to 
perform the contract; 

‘Pre-existing material’ : any material, document, technology or know-how which exists prior 
to the contractor using it for the production of a  result  in the  performance of the contract ;  

‘Pre-existing right’ : any industrial and intellectual property right on  pre-existing material ; it 
may consist in a right of ownership, a licence right and/or right of use belonging to the 
contractor, the  creator , the contracting authority as well as to any other third parties; 

‘Professional conflicting interest’ : a situation in which the contractor’s previous or ongoing 
professional activities affect its capacity to perform the contract to an appropriate quality 
standard.  


Version of January 2019 

3 

‘Related person’ : any natural or legal person who is a member of the administrative, 
management or supervisory body of the contractor , or who has powers of representation, 
decision or control with regard to the contractor;   

‘Result’ : any intended outcome of  the performance of the contract , whatever its form or 
nature. A  result  may be further defined in this contract as a deliverable. A  result  may, in 
addition to newly created materials produced specifically for the contracting authority by the 
contractor or at its request, also include  pre-existing materials ;  

 ‘Supplier portal’ : the  e-PRIOR  portal, which allows the contractor to exchange electronic 
business documents, such as invoices, through a graphical user interface  

2.   R OLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE EVENT OF A JOINT TENDER  

In the event of a joint tender submitted by a group of economic operators and where the group 
does not have legal personality or legal capacity, one member of the group is appointed as 
leader of the group.   

3.   S EVERABILITY  

Each provision of this contract is severable and distinct from the others. If a provision is or 
becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable to any extent, it must be severed from the remainder 
of the contract. This does not affect the legality, validity or enforceability of any other 
provisions of the contract, which continue in full force and effect. The illegal, invalid or 
unenforceable provision must be replaced by a legal, valid and enforceable substitute 
provision which corresponds as closely as possible with the actual intent of the parties under 
the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision. The replacement of such a provision must be 
made in accordance with Article 11. The contract must be interpreted as if it had contained the 
substitute provision as from its entry into force.  

4.   P ERFORMANCE OF THE CONTRACT  

4.1.  The contractor must provide services of high quality standards, in accordance with the 
state of the art in the industry and the provisions of this contract, in particular the tender 
specifications and the terms of its tender. Where the Union has the right to make 
modifications to the  results , they must be delivered in a format and with the necessary 
information which effectively allow such modifications to be made in a convenient 
manner. 

4.2.  The contractor must comply with the minimum requirements provided for in the tender 
specifications. This includes 
compliance 
with 
applicable 
obligations 
under 
environmental, social and labour law established by Union law, national law and 
collective agreements or by the international environmental, social and labour law 
provisions listed in  Annex X to Directive 2014/24/EU 1 , compliance with data protection 
obligations resulting from Regulation (EU) 2016/679 2  and Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 3 . 

                                                 

1   OJ L 94 of 28.03.2014, p. 65 

2   Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 
2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data 
and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, OJ L 119, 


Version of January 2019 

4 

4.3.  The contractor must obtain any permit or licence required in the State where the 
services are to be provided.  

4.4.  All periods specified in the contract are calculated in calendar days, unless otherwise 
specified.    

4.5.  The contractor must not present itself as a representative of the contracting authority 
and must inform third parties that it is not part of the European public service.  

4.6.  The contractor is responsible for the personnel who carry out the services and exercises 
its authority over its  personnel  without interference by the contracting authority. The 
contractor must inform its personnel that: 

(a) 
they may not accept any direct instructions from the contracting authority; and 

(b) 
their participation in providing the services does not result in any employment or 
contractual relationship with the contracting authority 

4.7.  The contractor must ensure that the  personnel  performing the contract and any future 
replacement  personnel  possess the professional qualifications and experience required 
to provide the services, as the case may be on the basis of the selection criteria set out in 
the tender specifications. 

4.8.  At the contracting authority’s reasoned request, the contractor must replace any member 
of  personnel  who: 

(a) 
does not have the expertise required to provide the services; or 

(b) 
has caused disruption at the premises of the contracting authority. 

The contractor bears the cost of replacing its  personne l and is responsible for any delay in 
providing the services resulting from the replacement of  personnel . 

4.9.  The contractor must record and report to the contracting authority any problem that 
affects its ability to provide the services. The report must describe the problem, state 
when it started and what action the contractor is taking to resolve it. 

4.10 . The contractor must immediately inform the Contracting authority of any changes in the 
exclusion situations as declared, according to Article 137 (1) of Regulation (EU) 
2018/1046.   

 

                                                                                                                                                         

4.5.2016, 
p. 
1, 
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/?uri=urise r v :O J .L _.2016.119.01.0001.01.ENG    

3    Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of 23 October 2018 on the protection of natural persons with 
regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and 
agencies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 
45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC, OJ L 295/39, 21.11.2018,  https://eur-
lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32018R1725&from=EN  

 


Version of January 2019 

5 

5.   C OMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE PARTIES  

5.1.   Form and means of communication 

Any communication of information, notices or documents under the purchase order must: 

(a)   be made in writing in paper or electronic format in the language of the purchase order;  

(b)   bear the purchase order number; 

(c)   be made using the relevant communication details set out in the purchase order; and 

(d)   be sent by mail, email or via  e-PRIOR .  

If a party requests written confirmation of an e-mail within a reasonable time, the other party 
must provide an original signed paper version of the communication as soon as possible. 

The parties agree that any communication made by email has full legal effect and is 
admissible as evidence in judicial proceedings.  

5.2.   Date of communications by mail and email  

Any communication is deemed to have been made when the receiving party receives it, unless 
this purchase order refers to the date when the communication was sent. 

E-mail is deemed to have been received by the receiving party on the day of dispatch of that 
e-mail, provided that it is sent to the e-mail address indicated in the purchase order. The 
sending party must be able to prove the date of dispatch. In the event that the sending party 
receives a non-delivery report, it must make every effort to ensure that the other party actually 
receives the communication by email or mail. In such a case, the sending party is not held in 
breach of its obligation to send such communication within a specified deadline. 

Mail sent to the contracting authority is deemed to have been received by the contracting 
authority on the date on which the department responsible referred to in the purchase order 
registers it. 

Formal notifications  are considered to have been received by the receiving party on the date 
of receipt indicated in the proof received by the sending party that the message was delivered 
to the specified recipient. 

5.3.   Submission of e-documents via e-PRIOR 

If provided for in the special conditions, the exchange of electronic documents (e-documents) 
such as invoices between the parties is automated through the use of the  e-PRIOR  platform.  

This platform provides two possibilities for such exchanges: either through web services 
(machine-to-machine connection) or through a web application (the  supplier portal).  

The contracting authority takes the necessary measures to implement and maintain electronic 
systems that enable the  supplier portal  to be used effectively. 

In the case of machine-to-machine connection, a direct connection is established between the 
parties’  back offices . In this case, the parties take the measures necessary on their side to 
implement and maintain electronic systems that enable the machine-to-machine connection to 


Version of January 2019 

6 

be used effectively. The electronic systems are specified in the  interface control document . 
The contractor (or leader in the case of a joint tender) must take the necessary technical 
measures to set up a machine-to-machine connection and at its own cost. 

If communication via the  supplier portal  or via the web services (machine-to-machine 
connection) is hindered by factors beyond the control of one party, it must notify the other 
immediately and the parties must take the necessary measures to restore this communication.  

If it is impossible to restore the communication within two working days, one party must 
notify  the other that alternative means of communication specified in Article 5.1 will be used 
until the  supplier portal  or the machine-to-machine connection is restored.  

When a change in the  interface control document  requires adaptations, the contractor (or 
leader in the case of a joint tender) has up to six months from receipt of the  notification  to 
implement this change. This period can be shortened by mutual agreement of the parties. This 
period does not apply to urgent measures required by the security policy of the contracting 
authority to ensure integrity, confidentiality and non-repudiation of information and the 
availability of  e-PRIOR , which must be applied immediately.  

5.4.   Validity and date of e-documents 

The parties agree that any e-document, including related attachments exchanged via e- PRIOR : 

(a) 
is considered as equivalent to a paper document;  

(b) 
is deemed to be the original of the document; 

(c) 
is legally binding on the parties once an  e-PRIOR  authorised person has performed the 
‘sign’ action in  e-PRIOR  and has full legal effect; and 

(d) 
constitutes evidence of the information contained in it and is admissible as evidence in 
judicial proceedings.  

The parties expressly waive any rights to contest the validity of such a document solely on the 
grounds that communications between the parties occurred through e-PRIOR or that the 
document has been signed through e-PRIOR. If a direct connection is established between the 
parties’  back offices  to allow electronic transfer of documents, the parties agree that an e-
document, sent as mentioned in the  interface control document,  qualifies as an  EDI message .  

If the e-document is dispatched through the  supplier portal , it is deemed to have been legally 
issued or sent when the contractor (or leader in the case of a joint tender) is able to 
successfully submit the e-document without any error messages. The generated PDF and 
XML document for the e-document are considered as a proof of receipt by the contracting 
authority.  

In the event that an e-document is dispatched using a direct connection established between 
the parties’  back offices , the e-document is deemed to have been legally issued or sent when 
its status is ‘received’ as defined in the  interface control document . 

When using the  supplier portal , the contractor (or leader in the case of a joint tender) can 
download the PDF or XML message for each e-document for one year after submission. After 
this period, copies of the e-documents are no longer available for automatic download from 
the  supplier portal .  


Version of January 2019 

7 

5.5.   Authorised persons in e-PRIOR 

The contractor submits a request for each person who needs to be assigned the role of ‘user’ 
in  e-PRIOR . These persons are identified by means of the European Communication 
Authentication Service (ECAS) and authorised to access and perform actions in  e-PRIOR  
within the permissions of the user roles that the contracting authority has assigned to them. 

User roles enabling these  e-PRIOR  authorised persons to sign legally binding documents such 
as specific tenders or specific contracts are granted only upon submission of supporting 
documents proving that the authorised person is empowered to act as a legal representative of 
the contractor. 

6.   L IABILITY  

6.1.  The contracting authority is not liable for any damage or loss caused by the contractor, 
including any damage or loss to third parties during or as a consequence of  performance 
of the contract .  

6.2.  If required by the relevant applicable legislation, the contractor must take out an 
insurance policy against risks and damage or loss relating to the  performance of the 
contract . It must also take out supplementary insurance as reasonably required by 
standard practice in the industry. Upon request, the contractor must provide evidence of 
insurance coverage to the contracting authority. 

6.3.  The contractor is liable for any loss or damage caused to the contracting authority 
during or as a consequence of  performance of the contract,  including in the event of 
subcontracting, but only to an amount not exceeding three times the total amount of the 
contract. However, if the damage or loss is caused by the gross negligence or wilful 
misconduct of the contractor or of its personnel or subcontractors, as well as in the case 
of an action brought against the contracting authority by a third party for breach of its 
intellectual property rights, the contractor is liable for the whole amount of the damage 
or loss.  

6.4  
If a third party brings any action against the contracting authority in connection with the 
performance of the contract , including any action for alleged breach of intellectual 
property rights, the contractor must assist the contracting authority in the legal 
proceedings, including by intervening in support of the contracting authority upon 
request.  

If the contracting authority’s liability towards the third party is established and that such 
liability is caused by the contractor during or as a consequence of the  performance of 
the contract , Article 6.3 applies.  

6.5 
If the contractor is composed of two or more economic operators (i.e. who submitted a 
joint tender), they are all jointly and severally liable to the contracting authority for the 
performance of the contract . 

6.6 
The contracting authority is not liable for any loss or damage caused to the contractor 
during or as a consequence of  performance of the contract , unless the loss or damage 
was caused by wilful misconduct or gross negligence of the contracting authority. 


Version of January 2019 

8 

7.   C ONFLICT OF INTEREST AND PROFESSIONAL CONFLICTING INTERESTS  

7.1.  The contractor must take all the necessary measures to prevent any situation of  conflict 
of interest  or  professional conflicting interest .  

7.2.  The contractor must  notify  the contracting authority in writing as soon as possible of 
any situation that could constitute a  conflict of interest  or a  professional conflicting  
interest during the  performance of the contract . The contractor must immediately take 
action to rectify the situation.  

The contracting authority may do any of the following: 

(a) 
verify that the contractor’s action is appropriate;  

(b) 
require the contractor to take further action within a specified deadline; 

7.3.  The contractor must pass on all the relevant obligations in writing to: 

(a) its personnel;  

(b) any natural person with the power to represent it or take decisions on its behalf;  

(c) third parties involved in the  performance of the contract , including subcontractors.  

The contractor must also ensure that the persons referred to above are not placed in a situation  

which could give rise to conflicts of interest.  

8.   C ONFIDENTIALITY  

8.1 
The contracting authority and the contractor must treat with confidentiality any 
information or documents, in any format, disclosed in writing or orally relating to the 
performance of the contract  and identified in writing as confidential.  

8.2 
Each party must:  

(a)  not use  confidential information or documents  for any purpose other than to perform 
its obligations under the contract without the prior written agreement of the other 
party;  

(b) ensure the protection of such  confidential information or documents  with the same 
level of protection as its own  confidential information or documents  and in any case 
with due diligence. 

(c)  not disclose directly or indirectly,  confidential information or documents  to third 
parties without the prior written agreement of the other party.  

8.3 
The confidentiality obligations set out in this Article are binding on the contracting 
authority and the contractor during the  performance of the contract  and for as long as 
the information or documents remain confidential unless:  

(a)  the disclosing party agrees to release the receiving party from the confidentiality 
obligation earlier;  

(b) the  confidential information or documents  become public through other means than a 
breach of the confidentiality obligation;  


Version of January 2019 

9 

(c)  the applicable law requires the disclosure of the  confidential information or 
documents .  

8.4  
The contractor must obtain from any natural person with the power to represent it or 
take decisions on its behalf, as well as from third parties involved in the  performance of 
the contract , a commitment that they will comply with this Article. At the request of the 
contracting authority, the contractor must provide a document providing evidence of 
this commitment. 

9.   P ROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA  

9.1 Processing of personal data by the contracting authority  

Any personal data included in or relating to the contract, including its implementation, shall 
be processed in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2018/1725. Such data shall be processed 
solely for the purposes of the implementation, management and monitoring of the contract by 
the data controller.  
 
The contractor or any other person whose personal data is processed by the data controller in 
relation to this contract has specific rights as a data subject under Chapter III (Articles 14-25) 
of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725, in particular the right to access, rectify or erase their personal 
data and the right to restrict or, where applicable, the right to object to processing or the right 
to data portability. 
 
Should the contractor or any other person whose personal data is processed in relation to this 
contract have any queries concerning the processing of its personal data, it shall address itself 
to the data controller. They may also address themselves to the Data Protection Officer of the 
data controller. They have the right to lodge a complaint at any time to the European Data 
Protection Supervisor. 
 

For the purpose of this article,  

(a)   the data controller is the entity that will be communicated to the contractor upon 
signature of the contract; 
(b)   the data protection notice is available at  https://ec.europa.eu/info/data-protection-

public-procurement-procedur e s_en.   

 

9.2   Processing of personal data by the contractor  

The processing of personal data by the contractor shall meet the requirements of Regulation 
(EU) 2018/1725 and be processed solely for the purposes set out by the controller. For the 
purpose of this article, the subject matter and purpose of the processing of personal data by 
the contractor are strictly linked to the implementation of the contract.  

The contractor shall assist the controller for the fulfilment of the controller’s obligation to 
respond to requests for exercising rights of person whose personal data is processed in 
relation to this contract as laid down in Chapter III (Articles 14-25) of Regulation (EU)  
2018/1725. The contractor shall inform without delay the controller about such requests.  

The contractor may act only on documented written instructions and under the supervision of 
the controller, in particular with regard to the purposes of the processing, the categories of 
data that may be processed, the recipients of the data and the means by which the data subject 
may exercise its rights.  


Version of January 2019 

10 

The contractor shall grant personnel access to the data to the extent strictly necessary for the 
implementation, management and monitoring of the contract. The contractor must ensure that 
personnel authorised to process personal data has committed itself to confidentiality or is 
under appropriate statutory obligation of confidentiality in accordance with the provisions of 
Article 8. 
 
The contractor shall adopt appropriate technical and organisational security measures, giving 
due regard to the risks inherent in the processing and to the nature, scope, context and 
purposes of processing, in order to ensure, in particular, as appropriate:  
 
(a)   the pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data; 
(b)   the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of 
processing systems and services; 
(c)   the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a timely manner in 
the event of a physical or technical incident; 
(d)   a process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical 
and organisational measures for ensuring the security of the processing; 
(e)   measures to protect personal data from accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, 
alteration, unauthorised disclosure of or access to personal data transmitted, stored or 
otherwise processed. 
The contractor shall notify relevant personal data breaches to the controller without undue 
delay and at the latest within 48 hours after the contractor becomes aware of the breach. In 
such cases, the contractor shall provide the controller with at least the following information: 
 
(a)   nature of the personal data breach including where possible, the categories and 
approximate number of data subjects concerned and the categories and approximate 
number of personal data records concerned; 
(b)   likely consequences of the breach; 
(c)   measures taken or proposed to be taken to address the breach, including, where 
appropriate, measures to mitigate its possible adverse effects. 
The contractor shall immediately inform the data controller if, in its opinion, an instruction 
infringes Regulation (EU) 2018/1725, Regulation (EU) 2016/679, or other Union or Member 
State data protection provisions as referred to in the tender specifications. 

The contractor shall assist the controller for the fulfilment of its obligations pursuant to 
Article 33 to 41 under Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 to: 

(a)   ensure compliance with its data protection obligations regarding the security of the 
processing, and  the confidentiality of electronic communications and directories of 
users;  
(b)   notify a personal data breach to the European Data Protection Supervisor; 
(c)   communicate a personal data breach without undue delay to the data subject, where 
applicable; 
(d)   carry out data protection impact assessments and prior consultations as necessary. 
The contractor shall maintain a record of all data processing operations carried on behalf of 
the controller, transfers of personal data, security breaches, responses to requests for 
exercising rights of people whose personal data is processed and requests for access to 
personal data by third parties. 

The contracting authority is subject to Protocol 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the 
European Union on the privileges and immunities of the European Union, particularly as 
regards the inviolability of archives  and data security, which includes personal data held on 
behalf of the contracting authority in the premises of the contractor or subcontractor. 

 


Version of January 2019 

11 

For the purpose of this article,  

the localisation of and access to the personal data processed by the contractor shall comply 
with the following: 
 
i.  
the personal data shall only be processed within the territory of the European 
Economic Area and will not leave that territory; 
 
ii.  
the contractor may not change the location of data processing without the prior 
written authorisation of the contracting authority; 

 

The contractor shall notify the contracting authority without delay of any legally binding 
request for disclosure of the personal data processed on behalf of the contracting authority 
made by any national public authority, including an authority from a third country. The 
contractor may not give such access without the prior written authorisation of the contracting 
authority. 

The duration of processing of personal data by the contractor will not exceed the period 
referred to in Article 22.2. Upon expiry of this period, the contractor shall, at the choice of the 
controller, return, without any undue delay in a commonly agreed format, all personal data 
processed on behalf of the controller and the copies thereof or shall effectively delete all 
personal data unless Union or national law requires a longer storage of personal data.  

For the purpose of Article 10, if part or all of the processing of personal data is subcontracted 

to a third party, the contractor shall pass on the obligations referred to in in Articles 9.1 and 
9.2 in writing to those parties, including subcontractors. At the request of the contracting 
authority, the contractor shall provide a document providing evidence of this commitment. 

10.   S UBCONTRACTING  

10.1.  The contractor must not subcontract and have the contract performed by third parties 
beyond the third parties already mentioned in its tender without prior written 
authorisation from the contracting authority. 

10.2.  Even if the contracting authority authorises subcontracting, the contractor remains 
bound by its contractual obligations and is solely responsible for the  performance of this 
contract . 

10.3.  The contractor must ensure that the subcontract does not affect the rights of the 
contracting authority under this contract, particularly those under Articles 8, 13 and 22. 

10.4.  The contracting authority may request the contractor to replace a subcontractor found to 
be in a situation provided for in points (d) and (e) of Article 18.1. 

11.   A MENDMENTS  

11.1  Any amendment to the contract must be made in writing before all contractual 
obligations have been fulfilled.  

11.2  Any amendment must not make changes to the contract that might alter the initial 
conditions of the procurement procedure or result in unequal treatment of tenderers. 


Version of January 2019 

12 

12.   A SSIGNMENT  

12.1.  The contractor must not assign any of the rights and obligations arising from the 
contract, including claims for payments or factoring, without prior written authorisation 
from the contracting authority. In such cases, the contractor must provide the 
contracting authority with the identity of the intended assignee. 

12.2.  Any right or obligation assigned by the contractor without authorisation is not 
enforceable against the contracting authority. 

13.   I NTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS  

13.1.   Ownership of the rights in the results 

The Union acquires irrevocably worldwide ownership of the  results  and of all intellectual 
property rights  on the newly created materials produced specifically for the Union under the 
contract and incorporated in the  results , without prejudice however to the rules applying to 
pre-existing rights  on  pre-existing materials , as per Article 13.2.  

The intellectual property rights so acquired include any rights, such as copyright and other 
intellectual or industrial property rights, to any of the  results  and in all technological solutions 
and information created or produced by the contractor or by its subcontractor in  performance 
of the contract . The contracting authority may exploit and use the acquired rights as stipulated 
in this contract. The Union acquires all the rights as from the moment the contractor has 
created the  results. 

The payment of the price includes any fees payable to the contractor about the acquisition of 
ownership of rights by the Union including for all modes of exploitation and of use of the 
results . 

13.2.   Licensing rights on pre-existing materials 

The Union does not acquire ownership of  pre-existing rights  under this contract. 

The contractor licenses the  pre-existing rights  on a royalty-free, non-exclusive and 
irrevocable basis to the Union, which may use the  pre-existing materials  for all the modes of 
exploitation set out in this contract. Unless otherwise agreed, the licence is non-transferable 
and cannot be sub-licensed, except as provided hereafter: 

(a) the  pre-existing rights  can be sub-licensed by the contracting authority to persons 
and entities working for it or cooperating with it, including contractors and subcontractors, 
whether legal or natural persons, but only for the purpose of their mission for the Union;  

(b) if the  result  is a "document" such as a report or a study, and it is meant to be 
published, the existence of  pre-existing materials  in the  result  may not prevent the publication 
of the document, its translation or its "reuse", it being understood however that the "reuse" 
may only be made of the  result  as a whole and not of the  pre-existing materials  taken 
separately from the  result ; for the sake of this provision, "reuse" and "document" have the 
meaning given by the Commission Decision of 12 December 2011 on the reuse of 
Commission documents (2011/833/EU). 


Version of January 2019 

13 

All  pre-existing rights  are licensed to the Union from the moment the  results  are delivered 
and approved by the contracting authority.  

The licensing of  pre-existing rights  to the Union under this contract covers all territories 
worldwide and is valid for the duration of intellectual property rights protection. 

The payment of the price as set out in the contract is deemed to also include any fees payable 
to the contractor in relation to the licensing of  pre-existing rights  to the Union, including for 
all forms of exploitation and of use of the  results . 

Where the  performance of the contract  requires that the contractor uses  pre-existing materials  
belonging to the contracting authority, the contracting authority may request that the 
contractor signs an adequate licence agreement. Such use by the contractor will not entail any 
transfer of rights to the contractor and is limited to the needs of this contract. 

13.3.   Exclusive rights 

The Union acquires the following exclusive rights:  

(a)   reproduction: the right to authorise or prohibit direct or indirect, temporary or 
permanent reproduction of the  results  by any means (mechanical, digital or other) and 
in any form, in whole or in part;  

(b)   communication to the public: the exclusive right to authorise or prohibit any display, 
performance or communication to the public, by wire or wireless means, including the 
making available to the public of the  results  in such a way that members of the public 
may access them from a place and at a time individually chosen by them; this also 
includes the communication on the Internet and broadcasting by cable or by satellite; 

(c)   distribution: the exclusive right to authorise or prohibit any form of distribution of 
results  or copies of the  results  to the public, by sale or otherwise; 

(d)   rental: the exclusive right to authorise or prohibit rental or lending of the  results  or of 
copies of the  results ; 

(e)   adaptation: the exclusive right to authorise or prohibit any modification of the  results ;  

(f)   translation: the exclusive right to authorise or prohibit any translation, adaptation, 
arrangement, creation of derivative works based on the  results , and any other 
alteration of the  results , subject to the respect of moral rights of authors, where 
applicable; 

(g)   where the  results  are or include a database: the exclusive right to authorise or prohibit 
the extraction of all or a substantial part of the contents of the database to another 
medium by any means or in any form; and the exclusive right to authorise or prohibit 
the re-utilization of all or a substantial part of the contents of the database by the 
distribution of copies, by renting, by on-line or other forms of transmission; 

(h)   where the  results  are or include a patentable subject-matter: the right to register them 
as a patent and to further exploit such patent to the fullest extent; 

(i)   where the  results  are or include logos or subject-matter which could be registered as a 
trademark: the right to register such logo or subject-matter as a trademark and to 
further exploit and use it; 


Version of January 2019 

14 

(j)   where the  results  are or include know-how: the right to use such know-how as is 
necessary to make use of the  results  to the full extent provided for by this contract, 
and the right to make it available to contractors or subcontractors acting on behalf of 
the contracting authority, subject to their signing of adequate confidentiality 
undertakings where necessary; 

(k)   where the  results  are documents: 

(i)   the right to authorise the reuse of the documents in conformity with the 
Commission Decision of 12 December 2011 on the reuse of Commission 
documents (2011/833/EU), to the extent it is applicable and the documents fall 
within its scope and are not excluded by any of its provisions; for the sake of this 
provision, “reuse” and  “document” have the meaning given to them by this 
Decision; 

(ii)   the right to store and archive the  results  in line with the document management 
rules applicable to the contracting authority, including digitisation or converting 
the format for preservation or new use purposes;  

(l)   where the  results  are or incorporate software, including source code, object code and, 
where relevant, documentation, preparatory materials and manuals, in addition to the 
other rights mentioned in this Article: 

(i)   end-user rights, for all uses by the Union or by subcontractors which result from 
this contract and from the intention of the parties; 

(ii)   the rights to receive both the source code and the object code; 

(m)    the right to license to third parties any of the exclusive rights or of the modes of 
exploitation set out in this contract; however, for  pre-existing materials  which are only 
licensed to the Union, the right to sub-license does not apply, except in the two cases 
foreseen by Article 13.2.;  

(n)   to the extent that the contractor may invoke moral rights, the right for the contracting 
authority, except where otherwise provided in this contract, to publish the  results  with 
or without mentioning the  creator (s)’ name(s), and the right to decide when and 
whether the  results  may be disclosed and published. 

The contractor warrants that the exclusive rights and the modes of exploitation may be 
exercised by the Union on all parts of the  results , be it via a transfer of ownership of the 
rights, on those parts which were specifically created by the contractor, or via a licence of the 
pre-existing rights, on those parts consisting of  pre-existing materials . 

Where  pre-existing materials  are inserted in the  results , the contracting authority may accept 
reasonable restrictions impacting on the above list, provided that the said materials are easily 
identifiable and separable from the rest, that they do not correspond to substantial elements of 
the  results , and that, should the need arise, satisfactory replacement solutions exist, at no 
additional costs to the contracting authority. In such case, the contractor will have to clearly 
inform the contracting authority before making such choice and the contracting authority has 
the right to refuse it. 

13.4.   Identification of pre-existing rights 

When delivering the  results , the contractor must warrant that, for any use that the contracting 
authority may envisage within the limits set in this contract, the new created parts and the  pre-


Version of January 2019 

15 

existing material  incorporated in the  results  are free of claims from  creators  or from any third 
parties and all the necessary  pre-existing rights  have been obtained or licensed.  

To that effect, the contractor must establish a list of all  pre-existing rights  to the  results  of this 
contract or parts thereof, including identification of the rights’ owners. If there are no  pre-
existing rights  to the  results , the contractor must provide a declaration to that effect. The 
contractor must provide this list or declaration to the contracting authority together with the 
invoice for payment of the balance at the latest.  

13.5.   Evidence of granting of pre-existing rights 

Upon request by the contracting authority, the contractor must, in addition to the list 
mentioned under Article 13.4, provide evidence that it has the ownership or the right to use all 
the listed  pre-existing rights , except for the rights owned or licensed by the Union. The 
contracting authority may request this evidence even after the end of this contract. 

This provision also applies to image rights and sound recordings. 

This evidence may refer, for example, to rights to: parts of other documents, images, graphs, 
sounds, music, tables, data, software, technical inventions, know-how, IT development tools, 
routines, subroutines or other programs (‘background technology’), concepts, designs, 
installations or pieces of art, data, source or background materials or any other parts of 
external origin. 

This evidence must include, as appropriate:  

(a)   the name and version number of a software product;  

(b)   the full identification of the work and its author, developer,  creator , translator, data 
entry person, graphic designer, publisher, editor, photographer, producer;  

(c)   a copy of the licence to use the product or of the agreement granting the relevant rights 
to the contractor or a reference to this licence;  

(d)   a copy of the agreement or extract from the employment contract granting the relevant 
rights to the contractor where parts of the  results  were created by its  personnel ;  

(e)   the text of the disclaimer notice if any. 

Provision of evidence does not release the contractor from its responsibilities if it is found that 
it does not hold the necessary rights, regardless of when and by whom this fact is revealed.  

The contractor also warrants that it possesses the relevant rights or powers to execute the 
transfer and that it has paid or has verified payment of all due fees including fees due to 
collecting societies, related to the final  results . 

13.6.   Quotation of works in the result 

In the  result , the contractor must clearly point out all quotations of existing works. The 
complete reference should include as appropriate, the following: name of the author, title of 
the work, date and place of publication, date of creation, address of publication on the 
internet, number, volume and other information that allows the origin to be easily identified.  


Version of January 2019 

16 

13.7.   Moral rights of creators 

By delivering the  results , the contractor warrants that the  creators  will not object to the 
following on the basis of their moral rights under copyright:  

(a)   that their names be mentioned or not mentioned when the  results  are presented to the 
public;  

(b)   that the  results  be divulged or not after they have been delivered in their final version 
to the contracting authority;  

(c)   that the  results  be adapted, provided that this is done in a manner which is not 
prejudicial to the  creator ’s honour or reputation.  

If moral rights on parts of the  results  protected by copyright may exist, the contractor must 
obtain the consent of  creators  regarding the granting or waiver of the relevant moral rights in 
accordance with the applicable legal provisions and be ready to provide documentary 
evidence upon request.  

13.8.   Image rights and sound recordings 

If natural persons appear in a  result  or their voice or any other private element is recorded in a 
recognisable manner, the contractor must obtain a statement by these persons (or, in the case 
of minors, by the persons exercising parental authority) giving their permission for the 
described use of their image, voice or private element and, on request, submit a copy of the 
permission to the contracting authority. The contractor must take the necessary measures to 
obtain such consent in accordance with the applicable legal provisions.  

13.9.   Copyright notice for pre-existing rights 

When the contractor retains  pre-existing rights  on parts of the  results , reference must be 
inserted to that effect when the  result  is used as set out in Article 13.3, with the following 
disclaimer: ‘© — year — European Union. All rights reserved. Certain parts are licensed 
under conditions to the EU’, or with any other equivalent disclaimer as the contracting 
authority may consider best appropriate, or as the parties may agree on a case-by-case basis. 
This does not apply where inserting such reference would be impossible, notably for practical 
reasons. 

13.10.   Visibility of Union funding and disclaimer 

When making use of the  results , the contractor must declare that they have been produced 
under a contract with the Union and that the opinions expressed are those of the contractor 
only and do not represent the contracting authority’s official position. The contracting 
authority may waive this obligation in writing or provide the text of the disclaimer 

14.   F ORCE MAJEURE  

14.1.  If a party is affected by  force majeure , it must immediately  notify  the other party, stating 
the nature of the circumstances, their likely duration and foreseeable effects. 


Version of January 2019 

17 

14.2.  A party is not liable for any delay or failure to perform its obligations under the contract 
if that delay or failure is a result of  force majeure . If the contractor is unable to fulfil its 
contractual obligations owing to  force majeure , it has the right to remuneration only for 
the services actually provided. 

14.3.  The parties must take all necessary measures to limit any damage due to  force majeure . 

15.   L IQUIDATED DAMAGES  

15.1.   Delay in delivery 

If the contractor fails to perform its contractual obligations within the applicable time limits 
set out in this contract, the contracting authority may claim liquidated damages for each day 
of delay using the following formula:  
 

0.3 x ( V/d)   

where 

V  is the price of the relevant purchase or deliverable or  result  or, failing that, the   amount 
specified in the purchase order; 

d  is the duration specified in the contract for delivery of the relevant purchase or 
deliverable or  result  or, failing that, the duration of  performance of the contract  
specified in the purchase order, expressed in days. 

Liquidated damages may be imposed together with a reduction in price under the conditions 
laid down in Article 16. 

15.2.   Procedure 

The contracting authority must  formally notify  the contractor of its intention to apply 
liquidated damages and the corresponding calculated amount.  

The contractor has 30 days following the date of receipt to submit observations. Failing that, 
the decision becomes enforceable the day after the time limit for submitting observations has 
elapsed.  

If the contractor submits observations, the contracting authority, taking into account the 
relevant observations, must  notify  the contractor:  

(a) of the withdrawal of its intention to apply liquidated damages; or  

(b) of its final decision to apply liquidated damages and the corresponding amount.  

15.3.   Nature of liquidated damages 

The parties expressly acknowledge and agree that any amount payable under this Article is 
not a penalty and represents a reasonable estimate of fair compensation for the damage 
incurred due to failure to provide the services within the applicable time limits set out in this 
contract. 


Version of January 2019 

18 

15.4.   Claims and liability 

Any claim for liquidated damages does not affect the contractor’s actual or potential liability 
or the contracting authority’s rights under Article.18. 

16.   R EDUCTION IN PRICE  

16.1.   Quality standards 

If the contractor fails to provide the service in accordance with the contract (‘unperformed 
obligations’) or if it fails to provide the service in accordance with the expected quality levels 
specified in the tender specifications (‘low quality delivery’), the contracting authority may 
reduce or recover payments proportionally to the seriousness of the unperformed obligations 
or low quality delivery. This includes in particular cases where the contracting authority 
cannot approve a  result , report or deliverable as defined in the purchase order after the 
contractor has submitted the required additional information, correction or new version.  

A reduction in price may be imposed together with liquidated damages under the conditions 
of Article 15. 

16.2.   Procedure 

The contracting authority must  formally notify  the contractor of its intention to reduce 
payment and the corresponding calculated amount.  

The contractor has 30 days following the date of receipt to submit observations. Failing that, 
the decision becomes enforceable the day after the time limit for submitting observations has 
elapsed.  

If the contractor submits observations, the contracting authority, taking into account the 
relevant observations, must  notify  the contractor:  

(a) of the withdrawal of its intention to reduce payment; or  

(b) of its final decision to reduce payment and the corresponding amount.  

16.3.   Claims and liability 

Any reduction in price does not affect the contractor’s actual or potential liability or the 
contracting authority’s rights under Article 18. 

17.   S USPENSION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE CONTRACT  

17.1.   Suspension by the contractor 

If the contractor is affected by  force majeure , it may suspend the  performance of the contract .  

The contractor must immediately  notify  the contracting authority of the suspension. The 
notification  must include a description of the  force majeure  and state when the contractor 
expects to resume the  performance of the contract .  


Version of January 2019 

19 

The contractor must  notify  the contracting authority as soon as it is able to resume 
performance of the contract , unless the contracting authority has already terminated the 
contract.  

17.2.   Suspension by the contracting authority 

The contracting authority may suspend the  performance of the contract  or any part of it: 

(a) 
if the procedure for awarding the contract or the performance of the contract proves to 
have been subject to  irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations ;  

(b) 
in order to verify whether the presumed  irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations  
have actually occurred.  

The contracting authority must  formally notify  the contractor of the suspension and the 
reasons for it. Suspension takes effect on the date of  formal notification , or at a later date if 
the  formal notification  so provides.  

The contracting authority must  notify  the contractor as soon as the verification is completed 
whether: 

(a)   it is lifting the suspension; or 

(b)   it intends to terminate the contract under Article.18.1(f) or (j). 

The contractor is not entitled to compensation for suspension of any part of the contract. 

The contracting authority may in addition suspend the time allowed for payments in 
accordance with Article 20.6. 

18.   T ERMINATION OF THE CONTRACT   

18.1.   Grounds for termination by the contracting authority 

The contracting authority may terminate the contract in the following circumstances: 

(a)   if provision of the services under an on-going contract has not actually started within 
15 days of the scheduled date and the contracting authority considers that the new date 
proposed, if any, is unacceptable, taking into account Article 11.2; 

(b)   if the contractor is unable, through its own fault, to obtain any permit or licence 
required for  performance of the contract ; 

(c)   if the contractor does not perform the contract in accordance with the tender 
specifications or is in breach of another substantial contractual obligation.  

(d)   if the contractor or any person that assumes unlimited liability for the debts of the 
contractor is in one of the situations provided for in points (a) and (b) of Article 136(1) 
of the Financial Regulation 4 ; 

                                                 

4    Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 
2018 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union, amending Regulations 
(EU) No 1296/2013, (EU) No 1301/2013, (EU) No 1303/2013, (EU) No 1304/2013, (EU) No 


Version of January 2019 

20 

(e)   if the contractor or any  related person  is in one of the situations provided for in points 
(c) to (h) of Article 136(1) or to Article 136(2) of the Financial Regulation. 

(f)   if the procedure for awarding the contract or the  performance of the contract  prove to 
have been subject to  irregularities,   fraud or breach of obligations ; 

(g)   if the contractor does not comply with applicable obligations under environmental, 
social and labour law established by Union law, national law, collective agreements or 
by the international environmental, social and labour law provisions listed in Annex X 
to Directive 2014/24/EU;  

(h)   if the contractor is in a situation that could constitute a  conflict of interest  or a 
professional conflicting interest  as referred to in Article 7;  

(i)   if a change to the contractor’s legal, financial, technical, organisational or ownership 
situation is likely to substantially affect the  performance of the contract  or 
substantially modify the conditions under which the contract was initially awarded or 
a change regarding the exclusion situations listed in Article 136 of Regulation (EU) 
2018/1046 that calls into question the decision to award the contract; 

(j)   in the event of  force majeure , where either resuming implementation is impossible or 
the necessary ensuing amendments to the contract would mean that the tender 
specifications are no longer fulfilled or result in unequal treatment of tenderers or 
contractors; 

(k)   if the contractor is in breach of the data protection obligations resulting from Article 
9.2;  

(l)   if the contractor does not comply with the applicable data protection obligations 
resulting from Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 

 

18.2.   Grounds for termination by the contractor 

The contractor may terminate the contract if the contracting authority fails to comply with its 
obligations, in particular the obligation to provide the information needed for the contractor to 
perform the contract as provided for in the tender specifications. 

18.3.   Procedure for termination 

A party must  formally notify  the other party of its intention to terminate the contract and the 
grounds for termination.  

The other party has 30 days following the date of receipt to submit observations, including the 
measures it has taken or will take to continue fulfilling its contractual obligations. Failing that, 
the decision to terminate becomes enforceable the day after the time limit for submitting 
observations has elapsed.  

                                                                                                                                                           

1309/2013, (EU) No 1316/2013, (EU) No 223/2014, (EU) No 283/2014, and Decision No 
541/2014/EU and repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, OJ L 193 of 30.7.2018, p.1 
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/lega l- co n tent/EN/TXT/?qid=1544791836334&uri=CELEX:32018R1046  


Version of January 2019 

21 

If the other party submits observations, the party intending to terminate must  formally notify  it 
either of the withdrawal of its intention to terminate or of its final decision to terminate.  

In the cases referred to in points (a) to (d), (g) to (i), (k) to (n) of Article 18.1 and in Article 
18.2, the date on which the termination takes effect must be specified in the  formal 
notification . 

In the cases referred to in points (e), (f) and (j) of Article 18.1, the termination takes effect on 
the day following the date on which the contractor receives  notification  of termination.  

In addition, at the request of the contracting authority and regardless of the grounds for 
termination, the contractor must provide all necessary assistance, including information, 
documents and files, to allow the contracting authority to complete, continue or transfer the 
services to a new contractor or internally, without interruption or adverse effect on the quality 
or continuity of the services. The parties may agree to draw up a transition plan detailing the 
contractor’s assistance unless such plan is already detailed in other contractual documents or 
in the tender specifications. The contractor must provide such assistance at no additional cost, 
except if it can demonstrate that it requires substantial additional resources or means, in which 
case it must provide an estimate of the costs involved and the parties will negotiate an 
arrangement in good faith. 

18.4.   Effects of termination 

The contractor is liable for damage incurred by the contracting authority as a result of the 
termination of the contract including the additional cost of appointing and contracting another 
contractor to provide or complete the services, except if the damage is the result of a 
termination in accordance with Article 18.1 (j) or in Article 18.2. The contracting authority 
may claim compensation for such damage.  

The contractor is not entitled to compensation for any loss resulting from the termination of 
the contract, including loss of anticipated profits, unless the loss was caused by the situation 
specified in Article 18.2.  

The contractor must take all appropriate measures to minimise costs, prevent damage and 
cancel or reduce its commitments.  

Within 60 days of the date of termination, the contractor must submit any report, deliverable 
or  result  and any invoice required for services that were provided before the date of 
termination.  

In the case of joint tenders, the contracting authority may terminate the contract with each 
member of the group separately on the basis of points (d), (e), (g), (k) or (l) of Article .18.1, 
under the conditions set out in Article 11.2. 

19.   I NVOICES ,  VALUE ADDED TAX AND E - INVOICING  

19.1.   Invoices and value added tax 

Invoices must contain the contractor’s (or leader’s in the case of a joint tender) identification 
data, the amount, the currency and the date, as well as the contract reference. 


Version of January 2019 

22 

Invoices must indicate the place of taxation of the contractor (or leader in the case of a joint 
tender) for value added tax (VAT) purposes and must specify separately amounts not 
including VAT and amounts including VAT. 

The contracting authority is exempt from all taxes and duties, including VAT, in accordance 
with Articles 3 and 4 of the Protocol 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European 
Union on the privileges and immunities of the European Union. 

The contractor (or leader in the case of a joint tender) must complete the necessary formalities 
with the relevant authorities to ensure that the supplies and services required for  performance 
of the contract  are exempt from taxes and duties, including VAT. 

19.2.   E-invoicing 

If provided for in the purchase order, the contractor (or leader in the case of a joint tender) 
submits invoices in electronic format if the conditions regarding electronic signature specified 
by Directive 2006/112/EC on VAT are fulfilled, i.e. using a qualified electronic signature or 
through electronic data interchange.  

Reception of invoices by standard format (pdf) or email is not accepted.  

20.   P AYMENTS   

20.1.   Date of payment 

The date of payment is deemed to be the date on which the contracting authority's account is 
debited. 

20.2.   Currency 

Payments are made in euros, unless another currency is provided for in the purchase order. 

20.3.   Conversion 

The contracting authority makes any conversion between the euro and another currency at the 
daily euro exchange rate published in the Official Journal of the European Union, or failing 
that, at the monthly accounting exchange rate, as established by the European Commission 
and published on the website indicated below, applicable on the day when it issues the 
payment order.  

The contractor makes any conversion between the euro and another currency at the monthly 
accounting exchange rate, established by the Commission and published on the website 
indicated below, applicable on the date of the invoice. 

http://ec.europa.eu/budget/c o n tr a c ts_g r ants/info_contracts/inforeuro/inforeuro_en.cfm    

20.4.   Costs of transfer 

The costs of the transfer are borne as follows: 

(a)   the contracting authority bears the costs of dispatch charged by its bank; 


Version of January 2019 

23 

(b)   the contractor bears the costs of receipt charged by its bank, 

(c)   the party causing repetition of the transfer bears the costs for repeated transfer. 

20.5.   Payment of the balance 

The contractor (or leader in the case of a joint tender) must send an invoice for payment of the 
balance within 60 days of the end of the period of provision of the services, as provided for in 
the purchase order or in the tender specifications.  

Payment of the invoice and approval of documents does not imply recognition of the 
regularity, authenticity, completeness and correctness of the declarations and information they 
contain.  

Payment of the balance may take the form of recovery.  

20.6.   Suspension of the time allowed for payment 

The contracting authority may suspend the payment periods specified in the purchase order at 
any time by  notifying  the contractor (or leader in the case of joint tender) that its invoice 
cannot be processed. The reasons the contracting authority may cite for not being able to 
process an invoice are: 

(a)   because it does not comply with the contract;  

(b)   because the contractor has not produced the appropriate documents or deliverables; or  

(c)   because the contracting authority has observations on the documents or deliverables 
submitted with the invoice.  

The contracting authority must  notify  the contractor (or leader in the case of joint tender) as 
soon as possible of any such suspension, giving the reasons for it. In cases b) and c) referred 
above, the contracting authority shall notify the contractor (or leader in case of a joint tender) 
the time limits to submit additional information or corrections or a new version of the 
documents or deliverables if the contracting authority requires it. 

Suspension takes effect on the date the contracting authority sends the  notification . The 
remaining payment period resumes from the date on which the requested information or 
revised documents are received or the necessary further verification, including on-the-spot 
checks, is carried out. Where the suspension period exceeds two months, the contractor (or 
leader in the case of a joint tender) may request the contracting authority to justify the 
continued suspension. 

Where the payment periods have been suspended following rejection of a document referred 
to in the first paragraph of this Article and the new document produced is also rejected, the 
contracting authority reserves the right to terminate the contract in accordance with Article 
18.1(c) . 

20.7.   Interest on late payment 

On expiry of the payment periods specified in the purchase order, the contractor (or leader in 
the case of a joint tender) is entitled to interest on late payment at the rate applied by the 
European Central Bank for its main refinancing operations in euros (the reference rate) plus 


Version of January 2019 

24 

eight points. The reference rate is the rate in force, as published in the C series of the  Official 
Journal of the European Union,  on the first day of the month in which the payment period 
ends.  

Suspension of the payment period as provided for in Article 20.6 is not considered as giving 
rise to late payment. 

Interest on late payment covers the period running from the day following the due date for 
payment up to and including the date of payment as defined in Article 20.1. 

However, when the calculated interest is EUR 200 or less, it must be paid to the contractor (or 
leader in the case of a joint tender) only if it requests it within two months of receiving late 
payment.  

21.   R ECOVERY  

21.1.  If an amount is to be recovered under the terms of the contract, the contractor must 
repay the contracting authority the amount in question. 

21.2 Recovery procedure 

Before recovery, the contracting authority must formally notify the contractor of its intention 
to recover the amount it claims, specifying the amount due and the reasons for recovery and 
inviting the contractor to make any observations within 30 days of receipt. 

If no observations have been submitted or if, despite the observations submitted, the 
contracting authority decides to pursue the recovery procedure, it must confirm recovery by 
formally notifying a debit note to the contractor, specifying the date of payment. The 
contractor must pay in accordance with the provisions specified in the debit note. 

If the contractor does not pay by the due date, the contracting authority may, after informing 
the contractor in writing, recover the amounts due: 

(a)   by offsetting them against any amounts owed to the contractor by the Union or by the 
European Atomic Energy Community or by an executive agency when it implements the 
Union budget;  

(b) by calling in a financial guarantee if the contractor has submitted one to the contracting 
authority;  

(c)  by taking legal action.  

21.3 Interest on late payment 

If the contractor does not honour the obligation to pay the amount due by the date set by the 
contracting authority in the debit note, the amount due bears interest at the rate indicated in 
Article 20.7. Interest on late payments will cover the period starting on the day after the due 
date for payment and ending on the date when the contracting authority receives the full 
amount owed.  

Any partial payment is first entered against charges and interest on late payment and then 
against the principal amount. 

21.4 Recovery rules in the case of joint tender 


Version of January 2019 

25 

If the contract is signed by a group (joint tender), the group is jointly and severally liable 
under the conditions set out in Article 6 (liability). The contracting authority shall send the 
debit note first to the leader of the group.  

If the leader does not pay by the due date the whole amount, and if the amount due cannot be 
offset or can only be offset partially in accordance with Article 21.2 (a), then the contracting 
authority may claim the amount still due to any other member or members of the group by 
respectively  notifying  them with a debit note in conformity with the provisions laid down in 
Article 21.2. 

22.   C HECKS AND AUDITS  

22.1  
The contracting authority and the European Anti-Fraud Office may check or require an 
audit on the  performance of the contract . This may be carried out either by OLAF’s 
own staff or by any outside body authorised to do so on its behalf.  

Such checks and audits may be initiated at any moment during  performance of the 
contract  and up to five years starting from the payment of the balance.  

The audit procedure is initiated on the date of receipt of the relevant letter sent by the 
contracting authority. Audits are carried out on a confidential basis. 

22.2  
The contractor must keep all original documents stored on any appropriate medium, 
including digitised originals if authorised under national law, for a period of five years 
starting from the payment of the balance.  

22.3  
The contractor must grant the contracting authority's staff and outside  personnel  
authorised by the contracting authority the appropriate right of access to sites and 
premises where the contract is performed and to all the information, including 
information in electronic format, needed to conduct such checks and audits. The 
contractor must ensure that the information is readily available at the moment of the 
check or audit and, if so requested, that information is handed over in an appropriate 
format.  

22.4  
On the basis of the findings made during the audit, a provisional report is drawn up. 
The contracting authority or its authorised representative must send it to the 
contractor, who has 30 days following the date of receipt to submit observations. The 
contractor must receive the final report within 60 days following the expiry of the 
deadline to submit observations. 

On the basis of the final audit findings, the contracting authority may recover all or 
part of the payments made in accordance with Article 21 and may take any other 
measures which it considers necessary. 

22.5 
In accordance with Council Regulation (Euratom, EC) No. 2185/96 of 11 November 
1996 concerning on-the-spot checks and inspection carried out by the Commission in 
order to protect the European Communities’ financial interests against  fraud  and other 
irregularities  and Regulation (EU, Euratom) No. 883/2013 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council of 11 September 2013 concerning investigations conducted by the 
European Anti-Fraud Office, the European Anti-Fraud Office may carry out 
investigations, including on-the-spot checks and inspections, to establish whether there 
has been  fraud , corruption or any other illegal activity under the contract affecting the 
financial interests of the Union. Findings arising from an investigation may lead to 
criminal prosecution under national law. 


Version of January 2019 

26 

The investigations may be carried out at any moment during the provision of the 
services and up to five years starting from the payment of the balance. 

22.6 
The Court of Auditors and the European Public Prosecutor’s Office established by  
Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 5  (‘the EPPO’) have the same rights as the 
contracting authority, particularly right of access, for the purpose of checks,  audits 
and investigations. 

                                                 

5   Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 implementing enhanced cooperation on the 
establishment of the European Public Prosecutor’s Office  

Cement Supply Agreement

 

This Cement Supply Agreement (the “Agreement”), dated as of January 12, 2024 (the “Effective Date”), is entered into by and between ZONA FRANCA ARGOS S.A.S., a sociedad por acciones simplificadas organized and existing under the laws of the Republic of Colombia (hereinafter referred to as the “Seller”), and ARGOS USA LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (hereinafter referred to as the “Buyer” and together with the Seller, referred to as the “Parties”).

 

WHEREAS, on September 7, 2023, Argos North America Corp., Cementos Argos S.A., Argos SEM LLC, Valle Cement Investments, Inc., Summit Materials, Inc., a Delaware corporation entered into a Transaction Agreement (the “Transaction Agreement”), pursuant to which Argos SEM LLC and Valle Cement Investments, Inc. agreed to sell and Summit Materials, Inc. agreed to purchase all of the issued and outstanding equity securities of Argos North America Corp. (the “Transaction”);

 

WHEREAS, the Seller owns a cement plant facility located at Cartagena, Colombia (the “Cartagena Plant”);

 

WHEREAS, the Buyer desires to purchase cement from the Seller, in accordance with the terms set forth herein;

 

WHEREAS, prior to the consummation of the Transaction, the Seller had entered into a Cement Supply Agreement, dated October 7, 2022, with Argos USA LLC (“Argos USA”), a limited liability company formed under the laws of Delaware (as amended prior to the date hereof, the “Original Supply Agreement”), in which the Seller agreed to sell and Argos USA agreed to purchase certain quantities of cement in bulk; and

 

WHEREAS, on the Effective Date, the Buyer and Transatlantic Cement Carriers Inc. (“TACC”) entered into a Logistics Service Agreement (the “Logistics Agreement”), whereby the Buyer delegated to TACC the hiring of a pneumatic vessel and open hatch/conventional vessels to transport the cement purchased from the Seller under this Agreement.

 

NOW, THEREFORE, and in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein, the Parties hereby agree to the following terms and conditions:

 

ARTICLE I
Scope of Agreement, Term, Passage of Title and Risk

 

Section 1.01     Scope of the Agreement. The Seller hereby agrees to sell and the Buyer hereby agrees to purchase certain quantities of Portland Cement Type 1L in bulk (the “Product”) delivered FOB Cartagena, Colombia - INCOTERMS 2020. From time to time, the Parties may negotiate in good faith for the Seller to sell and the Buyer to purchase certain quantities of Type I/II cement, and such cement shall be deemed a “Product” for purposes of this Agreement.

 

Section 1.02     Term. This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall remain in full force and effect until December 31, 2028 (the “Initial Term”).

 

 

 

For the purposes of this Agreement, “Contract Year” shall mean each period during the term of the Agreement between (and including) January 1 and December 31 of each calendar year, provided that the first Contract Year shall be from the Effective Date through December 31 of the same calendar year as the Effective Date.

 

The term of this Agreement may be extended for additional three (3)-year periods by mutual agreement by the Parties in writing. The Parties agree that for a period of two (2) months beginning six (6) months prior to the end of the Initial Term (or such other period of time to be mutually agreed by the Parties), the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to determine the renewal of the term of the Agreement and the terms and conditions applicable thereto.

 

This Agreement may also be terminated pursuant to the terms and conditions of ‎Section 6.02(c), ‎Section 8.13 or at any time upon mutual written agreement of the Parties.

 

Section 1.03     Passage of Title and Risk. Title to and risk of loss of the Product sold pursuant to this Agreement shall not be delayed and shall pass from the Seller to the Buyer when the Product is on board the vessel as set forth in A5 and B5 clauses of the FOB INCOTERM governing this Agreement as per INCOTERMS 2020 as published by the International Chamber of Commerce.

 

Article II
Quantity, Quality, Samples and Testing

 

Section 2.01     Quantity. The total quantity of Product delivered over the Initial Term (other than the first Contract Year) shall be [***] metric tons (“MT”) (-15%), with approximately [***] MT (-15%) to be delivered in each Contract Year (other than the first Contract Year), subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Prior to each Contract Year (other than the first Contract Year, which will be subject to the terms and conditions of ‎Section 2.01(h)), the Parties shall mutually agree to the minimum quantity of Product to be delivered during such Contract Year (the “Contract Year Minimum”); provided that the total quantity of Product to be delivered during each Contract Year shall be no less than [***] MT (other than the first Contract Year, which will be subject to the terms and conditions of ‎Section 2.01(h)) (the “Minimum Volume”). The Parties acknowledge and agree that the Product shall be delivered throughout the Initial Term according to the capacity of the Cartagena Plant, in lots to be agreed by the Parties on a tentative shipping schedule, on an annual basis in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein. For each Contract Year during the term of the Agreement:

 

(a)     Other than with respect to the first Contract Year, which will be subject to the terms and conditions of ‎Section 2.01(h), approximately [***] MT of Product shall be shipped to pneumatic port terminals on the East Coast (as of the date hereof, [***]) or [***] via pneumatic vessels, based on the carrying capacity of the available vessel and with specific quantities and locations to be designated by the Buyer; provided that, in connection with establishing the Annual Forecast (as defined below) for the fourth Contract Year, the Parties shall agree in good faith the aggregate amount of Product to be shipped via pneumatic vessels for both the fourth and fifth Contract Years.

 

- 2 -

 

(b)      Other than with respect to the first Contract Year, which will be subject to the terms and conditions of ‎Section 2.01(h), approximately [***] MT of Product shall be shipped to open hatch/conventional port terminals (as of the date hereof, [***]) via open hatch/conventional vessels and with specific quantities and locations to be designated by the Buyer; provided that, in connection with establishing the Annual Forecast (as defined below) for the fourth Contract Year, the Parties shall agree in good faith the aggregate amount of Product to be shipped via open hatch/conventional vessels for both the fourth and fifth Contract Years.

 

(c)     The Coordination Committee (as defined below) will agree on an annual forecast (an “Annual Forecast”) for the committed volume by port terminal of destination by two (2) months prior to the start of the applicable Contract Year (other than for the first Contract Year, for which the initial Annual Forecast is set forth on Exhibit A hereto), with the tentative breakdown per each month, in order for the Seller to plan with sufficient anticipation its monthly production. Any change in the port terminal of destination set forth in the Annual Forecast shall be agreed by both Parties.

 

(d)     Based on the Annual Forecast as stated hereinabove, (i) for open hatch/conventional vessels, the Buyer shall agree with the Seller on a monthly basis an updated Annual Forecast including firm commitment for the subsequent two (2) months, at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the first day of each month, and (ii) for the pneumatic vessels, the shipping schedule shall be based on the vessel’s consecutive voyage rotation, in which case, the Buyer shall agree with the Seller an updated Annual Forecast at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the first day of each month.

 

(e)     The Buyer shall, in each Contract Year, whether or not it has taken delivery of the Minimum Volume, other than as a result of breach by the Seller of this Agreement or a Force Majeure Event (as hereafter defined), pay for an annual tonnage of the Product equal to the product of (i) the difference between (x) the Minimum Volume and (y) the number of tons of Product that the Buyer has actually taken that Contract Year multiplied by (ii) US$[***].

 

(f)     The Seller shall, in each Contract Year, whether or not it has delivered the Minimum Volume, other than as a result of the breach by the Buyer of this Agreement or a Force Majeure Event, pay for an annual tonnage of the Product equal to the product of (i) the difference between (x) the Minimum Volume and (y) the number of tons of Product that the Seller has actually delivered that Contract Year multiplied by (ii) US$[***].

 

(e)     The Parties agree that the sums payable under this ‎Section 2.01 shall constitute liquidated damages and not penalties and are in addition to all other rights of the Parties under this Agreement.

 

(h)     The Seller represents and warrants that, prior to the Effective Date, the Original Supply Agreement has been amended to (i) provide a maximum volume of [***] MT of Product for the 2024 Contract Year and (ii) adopt the pricing provisions of Article III of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis, with respect to pricing of the Product for the 2024 Contract Year. Seller represents and warrants that, as of the Effective Date, the Original

 

- 3 -

 

Supply Agreement has been terminated. The Parties agree that for the first Contract Year, the Minimum Volume shall be calculated by reference to the agreed forecast under the Original Supply Agreement for the calendar year that includes the first Contract Year (the “Reference Volume”); provided, that the Buyer shall have the right, by written notice to the Seller during the fifteen (15) days following the Effective Date, to decrease the Reference Volume by up to ten percent (10%) to the extent that (A) any such decrease would not result in the Reference Volume being less than [***] MT and (B) as a result of such decrease, the quantity of Product to be delivered to pneumatic port terminals during the calendar year that includes the first Contract Year (including Product delivered pursuant to the Original Supply Agreement prior to the Effective Date) is not less than the greater of (1) [***] MT and (2) the quantity of Product to be delivered to pneumatic port terminals that had previously been agreed under the Original Supply Agreement for the calendar year that includes the first Contract Year. The Minimum Volume and the Contract Year Minimum for the first Contract Year shall each be the amount equal to: (x) the Reference Volume minus (y) the quantity of Product that has been delivered prior to the Effective Date under the Original Supply Agreement during the calendar year that includes the first Contract Year.

 

(i)     In the event that TACC is not able to provide a substitute pneumatic vessel as set forth in Section 1.01(c) and Section 1.01(d) of the Logistics Agreement, the Buyer will use reasonable efforts to arrange for the shipment of the Product to open hold vessel destinations by instruction to TACC pursuant to the Logistics Agreement. If no open hold vessel destinations are available, then the Buyer shall promptly notify the Seller, and the Seller may sell such quantities of Product that are not being shipped for the benefit of the Buyer to any third parties, provided that the applicable Minimum Volume of Product shall be adjusted to reflect the volume of Product that could not be shipped to open hold vessel destinations by the Buyer, and, for the avoidance of doubt, neither of the Parties shall be liable for the payment of the liquidated damages set forth in ‎Section 2.01(e) or ‎Section 2.01(f).

 

Section 2.02     Quality. The Product to be supplied shall (a) when loaded on board the carrying vessel, comply with ASTM C 595 in case of Type 1L or with ASTM C 150 in case of Type I/II and the specifications set forth in Exhibit B hereto (the “Specifications”) and (b) be from an approved source on the “Qualified Product List” (QPL) for Portland Cement Manufacturers of the Department of Transportation in each state in which the Buyer sells the Product. Department of Transportation approval shall be obtained by the Buyer in each state in which the Buyer sells the Product.

 

In the event that the Product becomes unavailable from the Cartagena Plant due to an unplanned plant outage or a disruption of services from the Cartagena Plant, the Seller shall supply the Product from another source provided that such Product meets the Specifications and that such other source meets the requirements set forth in the immediately preceding paragraph, either through one of its affiliates or from a third party. In this case, the Seller shall sell the Product to the Buyer on cost and freight (“CFR”) basis and the applicable price shall be the import parity price set forth in ‎Section 3.01.

 

- 4 -

 

Section 2.03     Sampling and Testing. For each shipment of the Product, the Seller shall ensure that the Product loaded on board the carrying vessel shall be sampled and tested as follows:

 

(a)     A surveyor at load port, to be agreed by the Parties, shall obtain a composite sample at load port, from at least one (1) kilogram samples, as the case may be, taken approximately every one thousand (1,000) MT from the system loading the cargo. The Buyer shall have the option to request an independent surveyor, in which case the Buyer shall bear the costs for such independent surveyor. Upon request from the Buyer, the Seller shall send to the Buyer the surveyor’s standard operating sampling procedures.

 

(b)     Such composite sample shall be split into three (3) sub samples of five (5) kilograms each, which shall be placed into suitable airtight and waterproof containers, sealed and signed by the surveyor.

 

(c)     The Seller shall cause such containers to be marked by the surveyor with the date of shipment, the name of the vessel, and the name of the producer, and to be promptly dispatched as follows: (i) one to be put on board the vessel or sent by express courier service to the laboratory indicated by the Buyer in its instructions, (ii) one to be tested immediately by the shipper’s laboratory, and (iii) one to be kept by the surveyor for at least ninety (90) days for future reference if necessary.

 

(d)     The Seller shall bear the costs for the sampling, dispatching and testing at the Cartagena Plant.

 

(e)     The Seller shall cause the result of the shipper’s laboratory to be sent by e-mail to the Buyer as soon as reasonably practicable after it becomes available.

 

(f)     Any quality discrepancy shall be notified by the Buyer to the Seller, to the attention of the Quality Control of the Cartagena Plant, in writing by e-mail reasonably promptly upon receipt of the results of the comparative testing obtained in accordance with the clauses above, stating the nature of the quality difference noted. In any case, such notification shall be served by the Buyer to the Seller, to the attention of the Quality Control of the Cartagena Plant, no later than forty-five (45) days after bill of lading date.

 

(g)     In the event of a significant quality discrepancy, then the sample retained by the surveyor shall be sent to Construction Technology Lab Group for comparative testing and all costs related thereto shall be borne by the Party at fault of such discrepancy. The result of the Construction Technology Lab Group test shall be final and conclusive (in the absence of manifest error) for both Parties in respect to the compliance of the Product to the Specifications.

 

(h)     In the event that any shipment of the Product is determined to be outside the Specifications, as evidenced by final laboratory tests obtained in accordance with the procedure set forth above, then the Parties shall endeavor to amicably settle the dispute by agreeing to a price adjustment that reasonably reflects the change from the Specifications. In the event that the Parties are unable to negotiate such price adjustment or find any other settlement during a negotiation period of thirty (30) days beginning on the day of receipt

 

- 5 -

 

of the results of the Construction Technology Lab Group, either Party may submit such dispute to resolution in accordance with ‎Article IX.

 

Section 2.04     Coordination Committee. The Parties shall each appoint a number of members (to be agreed by the Parties from time to time) to act as a coordinators under the Agreement and such members will form a coordination committee (the “Coordination Committee”). One designated member appointed by each Party to the Coordination Committee will have authority to act on the appointing Party’s behalf with respect to the matters set forth in the Agreement. Additionally, the Parties agree that TACC shall have the right to appoint at least one member of the Coordination Committee. The Coordination Committee will be directly responsible for coordinating and managing the supply of the Product under the Agreement and periodically addressing issues and matters raised by the other Party related to the Agreement. Each Party and TACC may change a Coordination Committee member from time to time upon written notice.

 

Article III
Price and Payment

 

Section 3.01     Price. The price of the Product (the “Price”) shall be on a FOB (Cartagena) basis. INCOTERMS 2020 shall apply. [***]:

 

(a)     [***].

 

(b)     Any harbor duties, dues, wharfage, port fee or other and/or taxes or levies on the cargo at the loading port shall be for the Seller’s account and at the unloading port shall be for the Buyer’s account.

 

(c)     The weight of each shipment shall be determined by a draft survey carried out by the Seller at the loading port. Such weight shall be used for invoicing and shall appear on the bill of lading. Costs of the draft survey at loading port shall be borne by the Seller.

 

(d)     The Buyer has the right to perform, directly or through an independent surveyor, a draft survey at the unloading port. Such draft survey performed at the unloading port shall be done at the time and cost of the Buyer. Such survey certificate shall be sent promptly to the Seller.

 

(e)     Should there be a discrepancy of more than two percent (2%) between surveys at the loading and unloading ports, the average of loading and unloading surveys shall govern. Any discrepancy of more than two percent (2%) shall be settled by the Parties within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the draft survey performed by the Buyer. If the Parties cannot reach an agreement within these thirty (30) calendar days, either Party may submit such dispute to resolution in accordance with ‎Article IX.

 

(f)     The balance in the settlement of the quantity difference shall be reconciled by the Seller in the form of a debit/credit note. The Seller shall issue such debit/credit note with the next invoice to be issued to the Buyer.

 

- 6 -

 

 

Section 3.02     Date of Payment. Each invoice due and payable under this Agreement shall be paid within thirty (30) days of the bill of lading date.

 

Section 3.03     Failure to Pay. Any undisputed amount not paid in accordance with the timing set forth in ‎Section 3.02 shall be subject to a late payment fee computed daily at a rate equal to the Applicable Rate from the due date of such amount to the date such amount is paid.

 

For purposes of the above:

 

“Applicable Rate” shall mean the Prime Rate plus one and one half percent (1.5%) per annum or if such rate is higher than the maximum rate that can be charged in commercial transactions as determined by the Superintendencia Financiera de Colombia, such maximum rate.

 

“Prime Rate” shall mean the rate per annum publicly announced by J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (or successor thereto) from time to time as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City. For purposes of this Agreement, any change in the Prime Rate shall be effective on the date such change in the Prime Rate is publicly announced as effective.

 

Article IV
Shipments, Loading Port and Lay Term

 

Section 4.01     Shipping and Scheduling. Every Contract Year, the Parties shall agree on a shipping schedule. Based on each Contract Year Minimum, the tonnage shall be allotted according to the shipments needed in each of the Buyer’s port terminals in the United States of America.

 

Section 4.02     Computing Laytime. Upon arrival at the loading port, the vessel shall tender the notice of readiness (“NOR”) to the Seller or its agent, as per the applicable loading conditions for the Cartagena port as stated in Exhibit C hereto.

 

The time within which the cargo shall be loaded (“Laytime”) shall start to count as per loading conditions for the Cartagena port as stated in Exhibit C; provided that the vessel has permission granted by the medical authorities at loading port, denoting that the vessel has a clean bill of health and is in all respects ready to load and it has entered at customs for outward loading. Time lost in waiting for berth shall count as Laytime, but actual steaming time from waiting anchorage to berth shall not count. In case the Buyer can arrange to load before Laytime commences, actual time shall be used to count the Laytime. On super holidays (i.e., New Year’s Day, Christmas Day, Good Friday), Laytime starts to count (or continues) the next day at 7:00 a.m.

 

Any Laytime calculation shall be totally settled between the Parties within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of relevant documents (e.g., time sheet, NOR and statement of facts duly signed by the ship’s agent and the captain or first officer of the vessel (the “Master”)).

 

If the time used for loading exceeds the Laytime allowed, then the Seller shall pay the Buyer a penalty charge for delaying the vessel beyond the allowed Laytime (“Demurrage”) in

 

- 7 -

 

respect of such excess time. Demurrage rate shall be defined as per applicable charter party. Demurrage rate shall be in United States Dollars and applicable per day or pro rata. The Seller is entitled to half dispatch for all time saved whether shipment is done in a conventional bulk carrier or in a pneumatic vessel (“Dispatch”). Demurrage and Dispatch shall be paid by the applicable Party to the other Party within thirty (30) calendar days upon Laytime settlement and presentation of invoice, supported by the relevant time sheet, NOR and the statement of facts signed by the ship’s agent and the Master.

 

The Demurrages caused in the unloading port shall be borne by the Buyer and the Demurrages caused at loading port shall be borne by the Seller. Any discrepancy shall be discussed and settled in good faith by the Parties.

 

In the event a conventional/open hatch vessel arrives to the Cartagena load port out of the previously agreed laycan between the Seller and the Buyer, the Seller shall confirm to the Buyer in writing the new date on which it may load the vessel, provided that it shall be the next possible and closest date to load, without causing the Seller to incur in extra costs due to this event. This paragraph shall not apply to the pneumatic vessels because their shipping schedules are based on the vessel’s consecutive voyage rotation.

 

In any case, either with a conventional/open hatch vessel or with a pneumatic vessel, the Seller commits with the Buyer to attend the vessel as early as possible and to give priority to such loadings.

 

Laytime shall cease to count when: (a) the loading of the cargo has been completely performed and the flow of Product has ceased, (b) after the loading equipment and labors have been removed from the vessel or (c) after the final draft survey has been performed, whichever occurs last.

 

Section 4.03     Vessel. The Buyer shall charter at its own risk and expense vessels suitable for the carriage of the Product between the loading port and the unloading port in accordance with the Logistics Agreement.

 

The main characteristics of the carrying vessel shall be prior approved by the Seller latest twenty-four (24) consecutive hours (Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays Excluded (SATSHEX)) after receiving vessel nomination and same shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.

 

Except as otherwise agreed, such vessel must respect the following criteria:

 

(a)     Classification of the International Association of Classification Societies;

 

(b)     International Group of P&I Clubs; and

 

(c)     Flag not blacklisted by the European Maritime Safety Agency.

 

The third parties employed by any of the Parties or the ship owner to load the Product from the performing vessel shall be always under the Master’s direction and supervision.

 

- 8 -

 

Section 4.04     Maritime Freights and Routes.

 

(a)     The Buyer shall assume any extra costs due to the Buyer’s declaration of a change in destination ports.

 

(b)     As a FOB Agreement, any variation in the actual fuel costs of the maritime pneumatic (i.e., [***]) freight shall be borne by the Buyer, whether it is a positive or a negative variation. For the avoidance of doubt, any variation in the costs of the Product comprising elements such as costs of production shall be borne by the Seller, unless the variation classifies as a Hardship pursuant to the terms set forth in ‎Section 8.09.

 

Article V
Representations and Warranties

 

Section 5.01     Representations and Warranties. Each of the Seller and the Buyer represents and warrants to the other that:

 

(a)     Due Authorization. It has all required power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement, and no other proceedings are necessary for the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the performance of its obligations contemplated hereby;

 

(b)     Due Incorporation. It is a company duly established or incorporated and organized under the laws of its establishment or incorporation jurisdiction;

 

(c)     Consents. It requires no authorization, consent, approval, waiver, license, qualification or exemption from, nor any filing, declaration, qualification or registration with any court, government agency or regulatory authority in connection with, its execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement;

 

(d)     Due Execution and Enforceability. Each Party has duly executed this Agreement and this Agreement with its exhibits constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, fully enforceable in accordance with its terms; and

 

(e)     Arm’s Length Transaction. It has taken all the necessary analysis to determine that this Agreement constitutes an arm’s length transaction.

 

Article VI
Force Majeure

 

Section 6.01     Force Majeure Definitions. For the purposes set forth in this Agreement, a “Force Majeure Event” shall mean any cause whatsoever that is beyond the respective Party’s reasonable control, including war, rebellion, riots, strikes, flood and fire, explosion, earthquake, hurricane, labor strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns, unavoidable accident, insurrection, revolution, civil commotion, sabotage, act of God or the enemies of the state of any of the Parties, perils of the sea, barratry, pandemics and quarantines that do not permit the supply of Product under this Agreement, prohibition or restriction by any competent government or any officer or agent thereof having jurisdiction in the premises, restraint by

 

- 9 -

 

injunction or other legal process from which the Party restrained cannot reasonably relieve itself by giving security or by other procedure, but excluding lack of utilities or governmental demand or action, regulation or requirement or interference.

 

Section 6.02     Force Majeure.

 

(a)     If either of the Parties is rendered unable, wholly or in part, by a Force Majeure Event to perform or comply with any obligation or condition of this Agreement, then the Party so prevented shall not be liable to the other Party for the resulting failure to carry out its obligations hereunder and any such obligations, so far as may be necessary, shall be suspended during the period of such prevention, and such Party shall not be liable for any alleged loss or damages resulting from such failure to perform, in each case, only if such Party is in compliance with the terms and conditions of ‎Section 6.02(b). Notwithstanding the existence of a Force Majeure Event preventing the Buyer from performing or complying with any obligation or condition of this Agreement, the Buyer will remain liable for any due and payable outstanding invoice.

 

(b)     Promptly following the beginning of a Force Majeure Event, the non-performing Party shall provide written notice to the other Party of (i) the obligations hereunder that such Party cannot perform, (ii) a full description of the Force Majeure Event, and (iii) and estimate of the time during which the Force Majeure Event will continue. Furthermore, such Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate the effects of such Force Majeure Event and to promptly resume the performance of its obligations hereunder (it being understood that, with respect to the Seller, such commercially reasonable efforts shall be deemed to include using commercially reasonable efforts to seek substitute supply of the Product from other sources).

 

(c)     In the event that a Force Majeure Event lasts more than sixty (60) calendar days, the Parties shall agree on how to amend this Agreement in order to comply with its terms. If no agreement can be reached within thirty (30) calendar days from a formal request for consultations by any of the Parties, either Party may terminate this Agreement by written notice to the other Party with immediate effect any time after such thirty (30) calendar days.

 

Article VII 

Indemnification

 

Section 7.01     Indemnification.

 

(a)     The Buyer shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Seller, its affiliates, and its and their respective directors, officers, employees and agents (the “Seller Indemnified Parties”) from and against any and all damages, losses, liabilities, obligations, penalties, judgments, settlements, claims, payments, fines, costs and expenses (including the reasonable costs and expenses of any and all actions and demands, assessments, judgments, settlements and compromises relating thereto and the reasonable costs and expenses of attorneys’, accountants’, consultants’ and other professionals’ fees and expenses incurred in the investigation or defense thereof or the enforcement of rights

 

- 10 -

 

hereunder), excluding consequential, indirect and/or punitive damages.(collectively, “Losses”) incurred in connection with any and all suits, investigations, claims or demands of third parties (collectively, “Third Party Claims”) arising from, relating to, or occurring as a result of: (i) any breach by the Buyer of this Agreement; (ii) the Buyer’s sale or use of the Product supplied hereunder; or (iii) any gross negligence, willful misconduct or failure to comply with applicable law on the part of the Buyer and/or any of its affiliates or any of their respective personnel in connection with their performance of this Agreement; except for those Losses for which the Seller has an obligation to indemnify any Buyer Indemnified Party pursuant to ‎Section 7.01(b).

 

(b)     The Seller shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Buyer, its affiliates, and its and their respective directors, officers, employees and agents (“Buyer Indemnified Parties”) from and against all Losses as a result of any Third Party Claim arising out of, relating to, or occurring as a result of: (i) any breach by the Seller of this Agreement; (ii) any defect or fault in the manufacture of, or materials used in, any Product supplied hereunder that constitutes, or results from, a failure of any Product to meet the Specifications; or (iii) any gross negligence, willful misconduct or failure to comply with applicable law on the part of the Seller and/or any of its affiliates or any of their respective personnel in connection with their performance of this Agreement; except for those Losses for which the Buyer has an obligation to indemnify any Seller Indemnified Parties pursuant to ‎Section 7.01(a).

 

Article VIII
Miscellaneous

 

Section 8.01     Entire Agreement. This Agreement with all its exhibits, together with the Logistics Agreement, represents the entire agreement between the Parties relating to the subject matter hereof and may be amended or varied only in writing by duly authorized representatives of both Parties.

 

Section 8.02     Non-Competition. The Parties acknowledge and agree that they have entered into, and are bound by, the terms and the conditions of the Restrictive Covenant Agreement, dated January 12, 2024, by and between Grupo Argos S.A., Cementos Argos S.A. and Summit Materials, Inc. (the “Restrictive Covenant Agreement”) and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are subject to the terms and conditions of the Restrictive Covenant Agreement.

 

Section 8.03     Severability. Should any provision of this Agreement be held to be invalid or unenforceable, it shall be given no effect and shall be deemed not to be included in this Agreement but without invalidating any of the remaining provisions of this Agreement.

 

Section 8.04     Notices. All notices permitted or required under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be by personal delivery, a recognized overnight courier service or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by e-mail. Notices shall be deemed given upon earlier of actual receipt or one (1) calendar day after deposit with the courier service or receipt by sender of confirmation of electronic transmission. Notices shall be sent to the addresses listed below, or to such other address as either Party may specify in writing.

 

- 11 -

 

Notices shall be addressed to the respective Parties at the following addresses:

 
  	If to the Buyer: 	Argos USA LLC
  	  	Attention: 	[***]
  	  	Address: 	[***]
  	  	E-mail: 	[***]
  	  	  	 
  	If to the Seller, to: 	Zona Franca Argos S.A.S.
  	  	Attention: 	[***]
  	  	Address: 	[***]
  	  	E-mail: 	[***]

 

Section 8.05     Exclusion of Implied Warranties. The Seller represents and warrants that it has, and that the Buyer will receive, good and marketable title to the Product to be delivered hereunder, free and clear of any liens or encumbrances, and that the Product to be delivered hereunder shall comply with the Specifications.

 

Except as provided in this ‎Section 8.05, the Seller makes no warranty of any kind with respect to the Product and specifically, but not exclusively, disclaims any express or implied warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose or against infringement or otherwise, and the Seller shall have no liability whatsoever as a result of the use of the Product sold so long as it meets the Specifications, whether used singly or in combination with other substances.

 

Neither Party shall be liable to the other Party, whether for negligence, breach of Agreement, misrepresentation or otherwise for loss of profits, revenue, goodwill, business opportunity or anticipated saving or any indirect or consequential loss or damage suffered by such other Party; provided that this paragraph of this ‎Section 8.05 shall not apply with respect to a Party’s indemnification obligations pursuant to ‎Article VII.

 

Section 8.06     Survival. The following provisions shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement pursuant to ‎Section 1.02: Section 2.01(f), Section 2.03, Section 3.01(c) – Section 3.01(f) and Section 4.02 (in each case, with respect to supply occurring prior to the termination or expiration of this Agreement); Section 3.02 and Section 3.03 (in each case, with respect to payment obligations arising prior to the termination or expiration of this Agreement); and ‎Article VII, Article VIII (except with respect to ‎Section 8.09 and Section 8.13) and ‎Article IX.

 

Section 8.07     Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted according to laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America, notwithstanding the residence or principal place of business of either Party, the place where this Agreement may be executed by either Party or the provisions of any jurisdiction’s conflict-of-laws principles.

 

Section 8.08     Duties and Taxes. All taxes, fees, duties, and other similar charges (regardless of their denomination) imposed on, or arising out of, the sale of Product or on the Product prior to the passage of title to the Buyer shall be for the account of and payable by the Seller, according to the applicable law. Therefore, the Buyer shall be responsible for all taxes, fees, duties, and other similar charges imposed at the time of or after the passage of title to the Buyer.

 

- 12 -

 

Section 8.09     Hardship. In case of material changes in the present or future export or import duties, taxes, charges or fees or in case of material and otherwise unforeseeable changes in the present conditions resulting in material hardship or material economic harm to any of the Parties to fulfil the terms and conditions of this Agreement (a “Hardship”), the Party affected may call for immediate negotiations between the Parties to lead to a mutually acceptable agreement by delivery of written notice to the other Party within ninety (90) days of the occurrence of such change. If such negotiations have not led to a mutually acceptable agreement within thirty (30) calendar days from the receipt of such notice, then either Party shall have the right to bring the issue to dispute settlement pursuant to ‎Article IX.

 

Section 8.10     Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.

 

Section 8.11     Confidentiality. This Agreement shall be strictly confidential. The Seller and the Buyer will maintain confidential, and will cause their respective directors, officers, employees and affiliates to maintain confidential, all terms and conditions of this Agreement as well as any other confidential information exchanged between the Parties hereunder. In the case that any such confidential information is required to be delivered to a competent authority according to applicable laws and regulations, the Party who has been required to deliver such information to a competent authority shall promptly inform the other Party, in order for the other Party to cooperate in connection therewith and so that such other Party shall have an opportunity to seek an appropriate protective order or other appropriate remedy. If such information is required to be delivered to a competent authority, the applicable Party shall deliver only that portion of the confidential information which is legally required to be delivered. Notwithstanding the foregoing, either Party may disclose the terms and conditions of this Agreement in connection with a public filing made by such Party that is required to be made by applicable law; provided that, such Party shall (a) only be permitted to disclose the terms and conditions of this Agreement to the extent required by such applicable law and (b) redact or otherwise omit any commercially-sensitive terms in connection with such disclosure.

 

Section 8.12     Assignment. No Party to this Agreement may assign any of its rights or delegate any of its obligations under this Agreement, by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the other Party, which consent may be withheld in such Party’s sole discretion; provided that (a) the Seller may assign any and all of its rights or obligations under this Agreement to any of Cementos Argos S.A.’s wholly-owned subsidiaries and (b) the Buyer may assign any and all of its rights or obligations under this Agreement (i) to any of the Buyer’s wholly-owned subsidiaries or any of Argos North America Corp.’s wholly-owned subsidiaries (ii) in connection with the transfer or sale of all or substantially all of the business of the Buyer to which this Agreement relates to a third party (whether by merger, sale of stock, sale of assets or otherwise). No assignment under ‎Section 8.12(a) or Section 8.12(b)(i) of this Agreement by either Party shall relieve such Party of any of its obligations hereunder. Any attempted assignment of this Agreement in contravention of this ‎Section 8.12 shall be null and void ab initio.

 

Section 8.13     AML/CFT SCMS. Either Party may unilaterally and immediately terminate this Agreement, in the event that the other Party is: (a) included in asset laundering and terrorism financing control lists managed by any national or foreign authority, such as the list of

 

- 13 -

 

the OFAC - Office of Foreign Assets Control issued by the United States Department of the Treasury, the lists of the United Nations Organization, as well as any other public list related with asset laundering and terrorism financing, or (b) prosecuted by the competent authorities in any type of legal process related with the commission of the aforesaid crimes. Each Party hereby irrevocably authorizes the other Party to request information in such lists and/or similar lists. The Seller shall have no right to receive any payment under this Agreement if any of the conditions set forth in (a) or (b) are met.

 

Each Party represents and warrants to the other Party that: (i) the resources, funds, assets or goods related to its business have been legally obtained and are not connected to money laundering or any of its related crimes, and (ii) the resources, funds, assets or goods related to its business shall not be used to finance terrorism or any other criminal activities pursuant to the laws of its jurisdiction or incorporation or the places where it conducts its business. Each Party further agrees to comply with the requirements of the Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism Self-Control and Management System - AML/CFT SCMS policy defined by Cementos Argos S.A., parent company of the Seller, which requires the delivery of applicable supporting documents and annual updates of its information.

 

Section 8.14     Relationship of Parties. Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed by the Parties or any third party as creating the relationship of principal and agent, partnership or joint venture between the Parties, it being understood and agreed that no provision contained herein, and no act of the Parties, shall be deemed to create any relationship between the Parties other than the relationship of independent contractor nor be deemed to vest any rights, interest or claims in any third parties.

 

Section 8.15     Waivers and Consents. The failure of any Party to require strict performance by the other Party of any provision in this Agreement will not waive or diminish that Party’s right to demand strict performance thereafter of that or any other provision hereof. Any consent required or permitted to be given by any Party to the other Party under this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by the Party giving such consent.

 

Section 8.16     Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Parties and should not be deemed to confer upon third parties any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, claim of action or other right in excess of those existing without reference to this Agreement; provided, that TACC will solely have the benefit of the rights conferred to it under ‎Section 2.04 to appoint at least one member to the Coordination Committee.

 

Section 8.17     Titles and Headings. Titles and headings to sections herein are inserted for the convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

 

Section 8.18     Waiver of Jury Trial. EACH OF THE PARTIES HEREBY WAIVES TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY WITH RESPECT TO ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HEREBY (a) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT

 

- 14 -

 

OR ATTORNEY OF THE OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (b) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT, AS APPLICABLE, BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS ‎Section 8.18.

 

Section 8.19     Interpretation. The Parties have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement. This Agreement shall be construed without regard to any presumption or rule requiring construction or interpretation against the Party drafting or causing any instrument to be drafted.

 
Article IX
DISPUTE RESOLUTION


Section 9.01     Negotiation. In the event of a controversy, dispute or claim arising out of, in connection with, or in relation to the interpretation, performance, nonperformance, validity or breach of this Agreement or otherwise arising out of, or in any way related to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, including any claim based on contract, tort, statute or constitution (individually and collectively, a “Dispute”), the Parties will utilize the dispute resolution processes set forth below to resolve any dispute, claim or controversy which the Parties have not been able to resolve to their mutual satisfaction in the ordinary course of business.

In the event the Parties are unable to resolve a Dispute in the ordinary course of business, either Party (the “Complaining Party”) may initiate the dispute resolution process by delivering written notice to the Coordination Committee members of the other Party (the “Receiving Party”). Within ten (10) business days after delivery of notice, the Receiving Party will submit to the Complaining Party a written response. Within five (5) business days after delivery of a response, the designated Coordination Committee members will meet and confer at a mutually acceptable time, and thereafter as often as they deem reasonably necessary, in an effort to resolve the Dispute through good faith negotiation.


Section 9.02     Jurisdiction and Service of Process.

 

(a)     If a Dispute has not been resolved to the mutual satisfaction of both Parties within twenty (20) business days following the Complaining Party’s delivery of the original notice, or if the Parties’ respective Coordination Committee members fail to meet and confer about the Dispute within fifteen (15) calendar days after delivery of the response (or such later date as the Parties may agree in writing), such Dispute will be subject to exclusive jurisdiction in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and any state appellate court therefrom within the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware declines to accept jurisdiction over a particular matter, any other state or federal court within the State of Delaware).

 

(b)     Process in any such action may be served on either Party anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing,

 

- 15 -

 

each Party agrees that service of process on such Party as provided in Section 8.04 shall be deemed effective service of process on such Party.

 

[Signatures on following page]

 

- 16 -

 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective duly authorized representatives on the date first written above.

 
  	Argos USA LLC
  	 
  	  	  	 
  	By 	/s/ Felipe Aristizabal
  	  	Name: 	Felipe Aristizabal
  	  	Title: 	

Vice President 

 
  	Zona Franca Argos S.A.S.
  	 
  	  	  	 
  	By 	/s/ Alberto Carlos Riobo
  	  	Name: 	Alberto Carlos Riobo
  	  	Title: 	Legal Representative

 

 

 

[Signature Page to Cement Supply Agreement]March 2023 

 

 

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SALE - CONCRETE 

1.  
Agreement.  These terms and conditions govern every purchase of concrete or concrete products from Superior Materials, LLC (“Supplier”) by any individual 
or entity (each, a “Customer”) and, together with any quotation, delivery ticket, mix design submittal and credit agreement issued by Supplier, and any other 
document specifically referenced herein, form an agreement between Supplier and Customer to provide concrete or concrete products (“Product”) 
(collectively the “Agreement”). Any proposal or attempt to vary the terms of this Agreement is expressly rejected by Supplier, unless signed by an authorized 
representative. Customer’s signature on any part of the Agreement, request for Product or acceptance of Product each constitute Customer’s 
acknowledgement that it accepted and is bound by the Agreement. 
2.  
Prices and Payment Terms.  Unless specifically noted, the quoted price only includes the manufacture and delivery of Product. It does not include any 
costs of inspection, tests, cost recovery items (including charges or fees relating to fuel or other surcharges, environmental matters, plant opening, tickets 
or fines, restricted loads, extra stops or diversions, minimum loads, weekend work, wait time, clean-up, cancellation, overtime, winter handling, summer 
cooling, returns, dumps or disposals) or charges due to Customer’s delays, actions or inactions, nor does it include taxes, bonds or other government levies, 
tariffs or duties, all of which, if applicable, are payable by the Customer. If a Customer is tax-exempt, it must present satisfactory proof of its tax exemption 
certificate prior to the time the Product is shipped. Customer will pay all invoices within 30 days of the date of the invoice. Late payments will accrue interest 
at the rate of 1.5% per month (18% per annum) and Customer shall be responsible for all of Supplier’s expenses (including legal fees) incurred in collecting 
any unpaid amounts. Notwithstanding any grant of credit to Customer by Supplier, if at any time the financial responsibility of the Customer becomes 
unsatisfactory to Supplier or the Customer is in default to Supplier or its affiliates under this or any other agreement, Supplier reserves the right to withhold 
further Product or require advance cash payment or satisfactory security prior to supplying any further Product. The Supplier shall be entitled to avail itself 
of any and all mechanic’s, materialman’s, or supplier’s lien rights that exist in any applicable jurisdiction to secure payment for Product. The Customer may 
not make any set-offs or deductions (including those for alleged damages or delays) from payments due hereunder. Any charges or fees imposed, including 
for fuel or environmental matters, are not represented to be a direct offset or pass through of the Supplier’s actual costs to service any individual account, 
but are intended to address its overall costs. Once accepted by Customer, the price under the Agreement is subject to change by Supplier, at its sole 
discretion, upon sixty (60) days’ notice to Customer 
3.  
Delivery and Cancellation.  Requests for deliveries of Product must be made at least 24 hours in advance. Supplier cannot guarantee delivery times, pour 
rates, slump or Product, vehicle, or equipment availability. Under no circumstances will Supplier be liable for any back charges or other charges due to 
alleged delivery delays. Supplier reserves the right to supply Product from any plant of its choosing and to determine the delivery route. Fees may apply to 
order cancellations. Customer shall provide reasonable and safe access to the point of sale, and facilities to allow Supplier or its agents to stage trucks prior 
to unloading and to clean delivery vehicles after Product delivery. If Customer or its agent does not sign the delivery ticket for the Product or otherwise 
receive the Product in the manner agreed to by the parties, the Product will, at Customer’s expense, be returned to Supplier or, at Supplier’s option, 
Customer’s failure or refusal to do so shall constitute its agreement with all matters set forth in the relevant delivery ticket furnished by Supplier. If Supplier, 
in its sole discretion, determines that such access or facilities are not reasonable or safe, then it may remove its equipment or stop deliveries until such 
access or facilities are provided, at Customer’s expense. Supplier will not be liable for any cold joints. All deliveries of Product shall be to the curbside 
nearest the delivery address, and Supplier shall have no liability for any damage or injury caused during deliveries that are beyond the curbside. 
4.  
Point of Sale.  “Point of sale” means the time and place at which the Product (i) exits the end of the chute from any delivery vehicle owned or operated by 
Supplier or its subcontractor to the specified location; or (ii) is loaded from Supplier’s plant onto any vehicle or equipment owned or operated by Customer 
or its agent or subcontractor. “Delivery” occurs at the point of sale. Title to and risk of loss of Product shall transfer to Customer at the point of sale. 
5.  
Supplier’s Site.  Customer acknowledges that Supplier’s sites may include heavy industrial activity or other hazardous conditions. Customer and any agent 
must, when on the Supplier’s site or when handling the Product, comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, by-laws, rules and regulations, including those 
regarding safety, and, to the extent they are more restrictive, all of Supplier’s rules, policies and instructions. Customer will ensure that all of its employees 
and agents entering Supplier’s site are properly qualified and wear all required safety apparel. Supplier reserves the right to refuse entry to its site of any 
vehicle or person it deems unsafe. 
6.  
Volume.  The standard measurement unit of Product shall be the one indicated on the quotation or as otherwise communicated by Supplier in writing. 
Customer is responsible for taking delivery of Product supplied pursuant to its order. The minimum load sizes for Product delivery differs depending on the 
mix. Any claim for shortage of Product must be made to Supplier within 24 hours after receipt of Product by Customer, and, in such instance, the quantity 
of loaded or delivered Product that is shown on Supplier’s delivery ticket shall be conclusive evidence of the quantity of Product delivered. 
7.  
Warranty.  Supplier warrants that, at the point of sale, Products will conform to applicable specifications for compressive strength, durability and workability 
in the current American Society for Testing and Materials (“ASTM”) C94/C94M Standard Specification for Ready-Mixed Concrete (“ASTM Standards”) or 
other alternative specifications that are agreed upon in writing. The Product is otherwise sold on an as is, where is basis. This warranty is not assignable by 
the Customer. THE FOREGOING WARRANTY IS EXCLUSIVE. SUPPLIER DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY 
WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS OR GUARANTEES, INCLUDING OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 
Warranty claims that are based on the strength of the Product must be made in writing within 60 days of the date of delivery of the Product. Warranty claims 
that arise out of any other issue must be made in writing within one year from the date of delivery of the Product. Regardless of the basis of the claim, 
Customer must provide Supplier with written notice of its warranty claim within five business days of the date Customer discovered or should have discovered 
such claim, and the claim must be accompanied by the Agreement and all evidence in Customer’s possession which supports its claim, including proof of 
nonadherence to the applicable specification by performance of a Petrographic examination in accordance with the applicable ASTM procedures (at 
Customer’s expense). Claims will be determined based on Supplier’s quality assurance test results for samples of the Product, if any. This warranty does 
not apply to Products that are concrete blocks or that have been manufactured by any third party, all of which are sold as-is, where-is. 
8.  
Warranty Does Not Include:  For clarity, Customer acknowledges that Supplier makes no warranty with respect to (i) the Product after the point of sale, 
including placing, finishing or curing of the Product; (ii) any finished work in which the Product is used; or (iii) the suitability of the Product for any particular 
use. Furthermore, the warranty set out in Section 7 shall not apply and Supplier has no liability hereunder if: 


March 2023 

 

 

 

a.  
Sampling and testing of Product is not in strict accordance with the ASTM Standards or if results are not interpreted in strict accordance 
with ASTM Standards; 
b.  
Addition of water by Customer or at Customer’s request results in the slump exceeding the maximum specified slump and/or 
water/cementitious ratio (if applicable); 
c.  
Customer or any other party on Customer’s request adds or mixes any materials or admixtures unless authorized in writing by the 
Supplier; 
d.  
Customer specifies any of the proportions of the Product mixed, regardless of acceptance of mix submittal by Supplier, beyond the 
responsibility assumed by the Supplier for mix performance as specified in ASTM C94 6.4 - 6.7; 
e.  
Placement of Product is not completed within the timeframe specified for delivery and placing, for any reason other than Supplier’s 
breach of this Agreement; 
f.  
Customer fails to supply any applicable project specification, supplies an incorrect project specification or orders Product that does 
not meet applicable ASTM Standards; or 
g.  
Installed Product is exposed to any non-traditional or alternative chemical de-icing materials (including calcium chloride, calcium 
magnesium acetate (CMA), potassium chloride, magnesium chloride or urea), application techniques or application rates. 
 

9.  
Limitation of Remedies . The exclusive remedy of Customer or any third party against Supplier for all claims related to warranty or Product quality (whether 
the claims arise in tort, contract, or any other theory of liability), or for any loss or damages arising out of, connected with or resulting from the Product or 
this Agreement, is, at Supplier’s discretion, (i) replacement of the Product or (ii) credit for the purchase price paid for the Product, and shall in no event cost 
Supplier more than the amount paid to Supplier for the Product. Without waiving the foregoing limitations, each of the Supplier and Customer shall defend, 
indemnify and hold the other harmless from any third-party claims, causes of action, liabilities, losses, costs, taxes, penalties, attorneys’ fees, expenses or 
otherwise, resulting from property damage, personal injury or death, to the extent caused by its breach of this Agreement, negligence, gross negligence or 
willful misconduct. Notwithstanding anything else herein, including the Supplier’s indemnification obligations, Supplier shall not be liable to Customer or any 
third party for any lost profits, indirect, consequential, liquidated, punitive or similar types of damages, nor will Supplier accept any back charges for any 
construction delays experienced by Customer or any third party, regardless of whether the alleged liability, loss or damage arises in tort, contract or any 
other theory of liability. 
10.   Technical Information and Assistance . Any technical or other information or assistance provided by Supplier or its agents, or oral statements made by 
Supplier or its agents, about the Product, is given without warranty or specification, and accepted at the Customer’s risk. Customer acknowledges that it is 
sufficiently knowledgeable regarding the Product and its intended use by Customer, and that Customer selected the Product for such use and decided to 
enter into this Agreement without any reliance upon any representations or statements of Supplier or its agents not expressly set forth in the Agreement. 
11.   Project Information.  Customer shall furnish to Supplier, upon oral or written request, copies of all payment bonds, notices of commencements, job 
addresses and other information Supplier deems necessary to protect Supplier’s interest in the Product. Supplier shall have the absolute right to provide 
any notices to third parties or otherwise, required to secure lien and bond rights available to Supplier. 
12.   Force Majeure.  Supplier may delay performance occasioned by events beyond its control without incurring liability for such delay when such delay is caused 
by a) acts of God or the public enemy, fire, explosion, epidemics, pandemics, public health crises, acts of war or terrorism, perils of the sea, flood, drought, 
war, riot, sabotage, vandalism, accident, breakdown, strike, labor dispute, protest, civil unrest, embargo or other casualty; b) compliance with any order, 
action, direction or request of any government authority; c) shortage of labor or materials; d) supply chain disruption; or e) any other circumstance that is 
beyond its reasonable control, including Customer’s acts or omissions. Further, and without limiting the foregoing and irrespective of any preexisting supply 
commitment to Customer, Supplier may, during periods of shortages or disruptions in labor, material or supply chains, allocate Product to Customer in 
accordance with similarly-situated customers. 
13.   Confidentiality.  This Agreement is intended for Customer’s use only. The contents of the Agreement are confidential and, unless compelled by law or 
judicial process, shall not be shared with third parties without Supplier’s written consent. 
14.   Miscellaneous.  Failure by Supplier to exercise any of its rights hereunder shall not operate as a waiver of such rights. This Agreement supersedes all other 
agreements, written or oral, regarding the subject matter of this Agreement, and no prior or subsequent understanding, agreement, term, condition or trade 
custom that conflicts with or is supplementary to this Agreement is binding on Supplier. All references to ASTM documents in these Terms and Conditions 
are to those in effect as of the effective date of these Terms and Conditions. This Agreement is not assignable by the Customer. Customer has read and 
agrees to abide by the Supplier’s Anti-Corruption Commitments for Customers, Anti-Corruption Policy and Code of Conduct, each of which is available 
upon request and may be found at  http://salestermsandconditions.vcnainc.com/ .  This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the 
laws of the State of Michigan, without regard for its choice of law or conflict of law principles, and, in the event of any disputes arising out of this 
Agreement, such disputes shall be brought exclusively in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan or the Michigan state court 
having jurisdiction over Oakland County, Michigan, and the parties consent to jurisdiction in such fora for any such disputes. Provisions of this Agreement 
which by their nature should apply beyond their terms will remain in force after any termination or expiration of this Agreement. 
 
 

Please contact us at  (888) 988-4400  with any complaints or questions. 
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT 
 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this ____ day of________, 20XX, by and 
between the  COUNTY OF MONTROSE, Colorado , by and through its Board of County 
Commissioners (hereinafter called "Owner" or "County"), and  ________________,   
(hereinafter called "Contractor"), for the Construction Project known as:   
 
The Owner's Representative (OR) is  _____________________________ .   
 
The Owner and Contractor agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE 1 
THE WORK: 
 
The Contractor shall complete all the work on the  _________________________  as 
specified in the Scope of Work included and also contained in the RFP attached hereto 
and 
incorporated 
herein. 
The 
Work 
is 
generally 
described 
as 
____________________________ .  
 
ARTICLE 2 
TIME OF COMMENCEMENT AND COMPLETION: 
 
2.1 
The Work to be performed under this Contract shall be commenced upon receipt 
of a Notice to Proceed and completed by  ______________ . Start date is 
anticipated to be on or about  ________________ .  
 
2.2 
Except as otherwise required for the safety or protection of persons or the Work 
or property at the Work Site or adjacent thereto, all Work at the Site shall be 
performed between the hours of 7 AM and 5:30 PM, Monday through Friday, 
unless otherwise provided in writing by Owner or OR, such consent not to be 
unreasonably withheld. 
 
ARTICLE 3 
CONTRACT AMOUNT AND BASIS: 
 
The Owner shall pay the Contractor the amount of $ _____________________  for the 
satisfactory performance of the Work, subject to additions and deductions by Change 
Order as provided in the General Conditions, the following: 
 
The unit price set forth on the Bid Schedule shall be the basis for the contract 
price.  Payment at the unit price will be based on actual measured quantities in 
the Work, or planned quantities as stipulated in the Project Special Provisions, 
except where the unit is a lump sum, in which case payment will be based upon 
the lump sum price as stated. 
 


The Owner states, pursuant to C.R.S. 24-91-103.6(2)(a), that the amount of money 
appropriated for this Contract is equal to or in excess of the contract amount set forth in 
this Contract. 
 
Pursuant to C.R.S. 24-91-103.6(2)(b), the Owner shall not issue any change order or 
other directive requiring additional compensable work to be performed under this 
Contract, which work causes the aggregate amount payable under the contract to 
exceed the appropriated amount for the original contract, unless the Contractor is given 
written assurance by the Owner that lawful appropriations to cover the costs of the 
additional work have been made or unless such work is covered under a remedy-
granting provision in the Contract. 
 
ARTICLE 4 
PROGRESS PAYMENTS: 
 
Based upon Applications for Payment submitted to the OR by the Contractor and 
Certificates for Payment issued by the OR to the Owner, the Owner shall make 
progress payments to the Contractor as follows: 
 
Monthly progress payment requests shall be remitted within thirty (30) 
days of issuance of Certificates for Payment by the OR to the Owner.  
 
Ten percent (10%) of each amount certified for payment shall be retained by the Owner 
until final payment. 
 
(note CRS 24-91-103 requires retainage for public improvement projects in excess  
of $150,000) 
 
ARTICLE 5 
FINAL PAYMENT: 
 
After completion of the Work, provided the Contract be then fully performed, subject to 
the provisions of Article 16 herein, the Owner shall publish a Notice of Final Settlement 
twice at least 10 days prior to the date of Final Settlement.  The Owner shall withhold 
from final payments any amounts as required pursuant to C.R.S. § 38-26-107. 
 
ARTICLE 6 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS: 
 
6.1  
The Contract Documents include: 
 
•  
Construction Contract  
•  
Project Special Provisions, if applicable 
•  
Blueprints provided by Owner/OR and any applicable Drawings 
•  
Addenda, if applicable 
•  
Change Orders, if applicable 


•  
Modifications, if applicable  
•  
Written Interpretations of the Contract Documents, if applicable   
•  
Performance Bond, as provided in Article 13 hereinbelow, if applicable 
•  
Payment Bond, as provided in Article 13 hereinbelow, if applicable 
•  
Materials Bond, as provided in Article 13 hereinbelow, if applicable 
•  
Notice to Proceed 
•  
Request For Proposals Package, Notice of Award, and signed copy of contract 
with the Board of County Commissioner’s signature 
•  
Certification of EEO Compliance 
•  
Contractors Performance Capability Statement 
•  
Owner’s Request for Proposals, attached 
•  
Contractor’s Proposal,  ___________________ , attached 
•  
Contractor’s Certification of Immigration Compliance, C.R.S. 18-17.5-101,  et seq.  
 
Contract standards include: 
 1997 Uniform Building Code & Montrose County Design Variables  
 
6.2  
The aforementioned documents form the Contract and what is required by any 
one shall be as binding as if required by all.  The intention of the Contract 
Documents is to include all labor, materials, equipment and other items as 
provided in Paragraph 10.2 necessary for the proper execution and completion of 
the Work and the terms and conditions of payment therefore, and also to include 
all Work which may be reasonably inferable from the Contract Documents as 
being necessary to produce the intended results. 
 
6.3  
Two copies of the Contract Documents shall be signed by the Owner and the 
Contractor.  If either the Owner or the Contractor do not sign the Drawings, 
Specifications, or any of the other Contract Documents, the OR shall identify 
them.  By executing the Contract, the Contractor represents that he has visited 
the site and familiarized himself with the local conditions under which the Work is 
to be performed. 
 
6.4  
The term Work as used in the Contract Documents includes all labor necessary 
to produce the construction required by the Contract Documents, and all 
materials and equipment incorporated or to be incorporated in such construction. 
 
6.5      In the event that any of the covenants or provisions of this Contract 
           shall conflict with any of the provisions of the Request for Proposals or the  
           Contractor’s proposal, then this Contract shall control and shall be the governing  
           document.  In the event that the Request for Proposals conflicts with the  
           Contractor’s proposal then the Request for Proposals shall control, it being the  
           intent that the work under the project is defined in this Contract and the Request  
           for Proposals. 
 
ARTICLE 7 
OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE (OR) 


 
7.1  
The OR will provide general administration of the Contract and will be the 
Owner's representative during construction and until issuance of the final 
Certificate for Payment.   
 
7.2  
The OR shall at all times have access to the Work wherever it is in preparation 
and progress. 
 
7.3  
The OR will make periodic visits to the site to determine in general if the Work is 
proceeding in accordance with the Contract Documents.  On the basis of on-site 
observations, the OR will keep the Owner informed of the progress of the Work, 
and will endeavor to guard the owner against defects and deficiencies in the 
Work of the Contractor.  The OR will not be required to make exhaustive or 
continuous on-site inspections to check the quality or quantity of the Work.  The 
OR will not be responsible for construction means, methods, techniques, 
sequences or procedures, or for safety precautions and programs in connection 
with the Work, and will not be responsible for the Contractor's failure to carry out 
the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. 
 
7.4  
Based on such observations and the Contractor's Applications for Payment, the 
OR will determine the amounts owing to the Contractor and will issue Certificates 
for Payment in accordance with Article 16. 
 
7.5  
The OR will be, in the first instance, the interpreter of the requirements of the 
Contract Documents.  The OR will make decisions on all claims and disputes 
between the Owner and the Contractor.   
 
7.6  
The OR will have authority to reject Work not conforming to the Contract 
Documents. 
 
ARTICLE 8 
OWNER: 
 
8.1  
The Owner shall provide labor and equipment to establish sewer, water, electric, 
and telephone lines as necessary. 
 
8.2  
The Owner has secured all necessary temporary easements or real property 
acquisitions necessary for the Project and shall advise Contractor of the 
boundaries of Owner's easements or property.   
 
8.3  
The Owner shall issue all instructions to the Contractor through the OR. 
 
ARTICLE 9 
CONTRACTOR: 
 
9.1  
The Contractor shall perform the work as an Independent Contractor pursuant to 


this Agreement. 
 
9.2  
The Contractor shall supervise and direct the Work, using Contractor's best skill 
and attention.  The Contractor shall be solely responsible for all construction 
means, methods, techniques, sequences and procedures and for coordinating all 
portions of the Work under the Contract. 
 
9.3  
Unless otherwise specifically noted, the Contractor shall provide and pay for all 
labor, expertise, materials, freight/delivery equipment, tools, construction 
equipment and machinery, water, heat, utilities, transportation, and other facilities 
and services necessary for the proper execution and completion of the Work. 
 
9.4  
The Contractor shall at all times enforce strict discipline and good order among 
his employees, and shall not employ on the Work any unfit person or anyone not 
skilled in the task assigned to him.   
 
9.5  
The Contractor shall comply with all OSHA and all applicable trade-related rules 
and regulations. 
 
9.6  
The Contractor warrants to the Owner and the OR that all materials and 
equipment incorporated in the Work will be new unless otherwise specified, and 
that all Work will be of good quality, free from faults and defects and in 
conformance with the Contract Documents.  All Work not so conforming to these 
standards may be considered defective. 
 
9.7  
The Contractor shall pay all sales, consumer, use and other similar taxes 
required by law and shall secure all permits, and licenses necessary for the 
execution of the Work at Contractor's expense.  The Owner is exempt from state 
and local sales and use taxes.  Contractor shall take steps to obtain such 
exemption from the Colorado Department of Revenue pursuant to C.R.S. § 
39-26-114(1)(a) XIX and 114(d).   
 
9.8  
The Contractor shall give all notices and comply with all laws, ordinances, rules, 
regulations, and orders of any public authority bearing on the performance of the 
Work, and shall notify the OR if the Drawings, Specifications and Provisions are 
at variance therewith. 
 
9.9  
The Contractor shall be responsible for the acts and omissions of all Contractor's 
employees and all Sub-Contractors, their agents and employees and all other 
persons performing any of the Work under a contract with the Contractor. 
 
9.10  The Contractor shall review, stamp with his approval and submit all samples and 
shop drawings as directed for approval of the OR for conformance with the 
design concept and with the information given in the Contract Documents.  The 
Work shall be in accordance with approved samples and shop drawings. 
 


9.11  The Contractor at all times shall keep the premises free from accumulation of 
waste materials and debris caused by Contractor's operations. This provision is 
imperative.  At the completion of the Work, Contractor shall leave the Project site 
in a neat and orderly condition. 
 
ARTICLE 10 
SUBCONTRACTS:  
 
10.1  A Subcontractor is a person who has a contract with the Contractor to perform 
any of the Work at the site. 
 
10.2  Unless otherwise specified in the Contract Documents or in the Instructions to 
Bidders, the Contractor, as soon as practicable after the award of the Contract, 
shall furnish to the OR in writing a list of the names of Subcontractors proposed 
for the principal portions of the Work.  The Contractor shall not employ any 
Subcontractor to whom the OR or the Owner may have a reasonable objection.  
The Contractor shall not be required to employ any Subcontractor to whom he 
has a reasonable objection.  Contracts between the Contractor and the 
Subcontractor shall be in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and shall 
include the General Conditions of this Agreement insofar as applicable.   
 
ARTICLE 11 
DECISIONS ON DISPUTES:  
 
11.1. The provisions of this Article shall govern the procedures to be followed in the 
event of a dispute. 
 
11.2 Representative shall be the initial interpreter of the requirements of the Contract   
Documents and judge the acceptability of the Work thereunder.  Claims, disputes 
and other matters relating to the acceptability of the Work or the interpretation of 
the requirements of the Contract Documents pertaining to the performance and 
furnishing of the Work and changes in the Work and Contract Times will be 
referred initially to the OR in writing with a request for a decision.  Written notice 
of each such claim, dispute or other matter will be delivered by the Contractor to 
the OR promptly after the occurrence or event giving rise thereto.  The OR will 
render a decision in writing promptly after receipt of the submittal, allowing 
sufficient time for review of the matter.  The OR's decision on such claim, dispute 
or other matter will be final and binding upon the Contractor.  
 
11.3 When functioning under these provisions, the OR will remain impartial to both the 
Contractor and the County, and will not be liable in connection with any 
interpretation or decision rendered in good faith in such capacity.   
 
ARTICLE 12 
ROYALTIES AND PATENTS: 
 


The Contractor shall pay all royalties and license fees.  The Contractor shall defend all 
suits or claims for infringement of any patent rights and shall save the Owner harmless 
from loss on account thereof. 
 
ARTICLE 13 
PERFORMANCE AND PAYMENT BONDS: 
 
A Performance Bond, Payment Bond and Materials Bond shall be submitted by 
Contractor for all as indicated in Article 6.  Each bond shall be in the amount of the One 
Hundred Percent (100%) of contract sum and shall either be in the form supplied by 
Owner or shall be in such other form as approved by Owner.  The bond shall make 
reference to this Contract, and may be drawn against in an appropriate amount as 
determined by the Owner in its sole discretion, when any damages to the Owner result 
from the Contractor’s services pursuant to this Contract, or Contractor’s malfeasance, 
misfeasance, or breach in the performance hereof.  The purpose of the bond is to 
secure the performance of and the compliance with this Contract by and between the 
Contractor and Owner; the bond shall not be transferable.  Each bond shall comply with 
the requirements of C.R.S. §§ 38-26-105 and 106.   
 
(note CRS 38-26-105 and 106 require a payment and performance bond (or money 
order or certified check payable to Montrose County Treasurer to hold) in the 
amount of at least 50% of the contract price for county public improvement 
projects in excess of $50,000) 
 
ARTICLE 14 
DELAY: 
 
14.1 All of the Work will be completed and ready for final payment by the date 
specified in this Agreement. 
 
14.2 If the Contractor is delayed at any time in the progress of the Work by changes 
ordered in the Work, by labor disputes, fire, unusual delay in transportation, 
unavoidable casualties, causes beyond the Contractor's control, or by any cause 
which the OR may determine justifies the delay, then the Contract Time shall be 
extended by Change Order for such reasonable time as the OR may determine.  
 
ARTICLE 15 
PAYMENTS:  
 
15.1 Payments shall be made as provided in Article 4 of this Contract. 
 
15.2 Payments may be withheld on account of (1) defective Work not remedied, (2) 
claims asserted or evidence which indicates probable assertion of claims, (3) 
failure of the Contractor to make payments properly to Sub-Contractors or for 
labor, materials, or equipment, (4) damage to another Contractor or Owner, or (5) 
unsatisfactory prosecution of the Work by the Contractor. 


 
15.3 Final payment shall not be due until (1) the Contractor has delivered to the 
Owner a bond, a clean irrevocable letter of credit, cash or other security 
satisfactory to the Owner indemnifying Owner against any claim which has been 
asserted by anyone for labor, materials, equipment or otherwise arising out of the 
contract or on account of any claim which either Owner or Contractor believes 
may be asserted, (2) the Owner has inspected and approved the Work as 
complying with the contract, (3) written consent of surety, if any is given, (4) any 
manufacturers or suppliers warranties and equipment literature, and any as built 
plans required are delivered to Owner, and (5) the Owner and Contractor have 
complied with all requirements for Final Settlement imposed by applicable law. 
 
ARTICLE 16 
PROTECTION OF PERSONS AND PROPERTY AND RISK OF LOSS: 
 
The Contractor shall be responsible for initiating, maintaining, and supervising all safety 
precautions and programs in connection with the Work.  He shall take all reasonable 
precautions for the safety of, and shall provide all reasonable protection to prevent 
damage, injury or loss to (1) all employees on the Work and other persons who may be 
affected thereby, (2) all the Work and all materials and equipment to be incorporated 
therein, and (3) other property at the site or elsewhere.  Contractor shall bear all risk of 
loss to the work, or materials or equipment for the work due to fire, theft, vandalism, or 
other casualty or cause, until the work is fully completed and accepted by the Owner.  
He shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and orders of 
any public authority having jurisdiction for the safety of persons or property or to protect 
them from damage, injury or loss.  All damage or loss to any property caused in whole 
or in part by the Contractor, any Sub Contractor, any Sub-Subcontractor or anyone 
directly or indirectly employed by any of them, or by anyone for whose acts any of them 
may be liable, shall be remedied by the Contractor. 
 
ARTICLE 17 
INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE : 
 
Indemnification  
 
17.1 The Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless the Owner and the OR and 
their respective officers, agents and employees, insurers, and self-insurance 
pool, from and against all liability, claims and demands, on account of injury, loss 
or damage, including without limitation claims arising from bodily injury, personal 
injury, sickness, disease, death, property loss or damage, or any other loss of 
any kind whatsoever, which arise out of or are in any way connected with this 
Contract, if such injury, loss, or damage is caused in whole or in part by, or is 
claimed to be caused in whole or in part by, the act, omission, error, professional 
error, mistake, negligence, or other fault of the Contractor or any Subcontractor 
of the Contractor, or any officer, employee, representative, or agent of the 
Contractor or any Subcontractor of the Contractor, or which arise out of any 


worker's compensation claim of any employee of the Contractor or any 
Subcontractor of the Contractor. 
 
17.2 The Contractor agrees to investigate, handle, respond to, and to provide defense 
for and defend against, any such liability, claims or demands at the sole expense 
of the Contractor, or at the option of the Owner, agrees to pay the Owner or 
reimburse the Owner for defense costs incurred by the Owner in connection with, 
any such liability, claims or demands.  In carrying out any of the provisions of this 
Contract or in exercising any power or authority thereby, there shall be no 
personal liability of the Owner or the Owner's Representative, or officials, 
attorneys, employees and agents thereof. 
 
17.3 The Contractor also agrees to bear all other costs and expenses related thereto, 
including court costs and attorney fees, whether any such liability, claims or 
demands alleged are groundless, false or fraudulent.  The obligation of these 
provisions shall not extend to any injury, loss or damage which is caused by the 
act, omission or other fault of the Owner  
 
Insurance  
 
17.4 The Contractor agrees to procure and maintain, at its own cost, a policy or 
policies of insurance sufficient to insure against all liability, claims, demands, and 
other obligations assumed by the Contractor pursuant to Section 18.1.  Such 
insurance shall be in addition to any other insurance requirements imposed by 
this contract or by law.  The Contractor shall not be relieved of any liability, 
claims, demands, or other obligations assumed pursuant to Section 18.1 by 
reason of its failure to procure or maintain insurance, or by reason of its failure to 
procure or maintain insurance in sufficient amounts, durations, or types. 
 
17.5 Contractor shall procure and maintain, and shall cause any Subcontractor of the 
Contractor to procure and maintain, the minimum insurance coverages listed 
below. Such coverages shall be procured and maintained with forms and 
insurers acceptable to Owner. All coverages shall be continuously maintained to 
cover all liability, claims, demands, and other obligations assumed by the 
Contractor pursuant to Section 18.1. In the case of any claims-made policy, the 
necessary retroactive dates and extended reporting periods shall be procured to 
maintain such continuous coverage. 
 
(a)  
Worker's Compensation insurance to cover obligations imposed by 
applicable laws for any employee engaged in the performance of work 
under this contract. Evidence of qualified self-insured status may be 
substituted for the Workmen's Compensation requirements of this 
paragraph. 
 
(b)  
Commercial General Liability insurance with minimum combined single 
limits of ONE MILLION DOLLARS ($1,000,000) each occurrence and 


ONE MILLION DOLLARS ($1,000,000) aggregate.  The policy shall be 
applicable to all premises and operations.  The policy shall include 
coverage for bodily injury, broad form property damage (including 
completed operations), personal injury (including coverage for contractual 
and employee acts), blanket contractual, independent contractors, 
products, and completed operations.  The policy shall include coverage for 
explosion, collapse, and underground hazards.  The policy shall contain a 
severability of interests provision.   
 
(c)  
Comprehensive Automobile Liability insurance with minimum combined 
single limits for bodily injury and property damage of not less than FIVE 
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($500,000) each occurrence and 
FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($500,000) aggregate with 
respect to each of Contractor's owned, hired and non-owned vehicles 
assigned to or used in performance of the services.  The policy shall 
contain a severability of interests provision.  If the Contractor has no 
owned automobiles, the requirements of this Paragraph shall be met by 
each employee of the Contractor providing services to the Owner under 
this contract. 
 
(d)  
Professional/Contractor Liability insurance with minimum limits of ONE 
MILLION DOLLARS ($1,000,000) each occurrence and ONE MILLION 
DOLLARS ($1,000,000) aggregate. 
 
17.6 The policy required by paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be endorsed to include 
Owner and the Owner's Representative, and officers and employees thereof, as 
additional insureds.  Every policy required above shall be primary insurance and 
any insurance carried by Owner, its officers, or its employees, or carried by or 
provided through any insurance pool of Owner, shall be excess and not 
contributory insurance to that provided by Contractor.  No additional insured 
endorsement to any policy shall contain any exclusion for bodily injury or property 
damage arising from completed operations.  The Contractor shall be solely 
responsible for any deductible losses under any policy required above. 
 
17.7 The certificate of insurance provided by Owner shall be completed by the 
Contractor's insurance agent as evidence that policies providing the required 
coverages, conditions, and minimum limits are in full force and effect, and shall 
be reviewed and approved by Owner prior to commencement of the contract.  No 
other form of certificate shall be used. The certificate shall identify this Contract 
and shall provide that the coverages afforded under the policies shall not be 
cancelled, terminated or materially changed until at least thirty (30) days prior 
written notice has been given to Owner.  Any statement of the certificates which 
describe this 30-day prior written notice as being less than obligatory shall be 
stricken and initialed by the insurance agent completing the certificates. The 
completed certificate of insurance shall be sent to Owner. 
 


17.8 Failure on the part of the Contractor to procure or maintain policies providing the 
required coverages, conditions, and minimum limits shall constitute a material 
breach of contract upon which Owner may immediately terminate this contract, or 
at its discretion Owner may procure or renew any such policy or any extended 
reporting period thereto and may pay any and all premiums in connection 
therewith, and all monies so paid by Owner shall be repaid by Contractor to 
Owner upon demand, or Owner may offset the cost of the premiums against any 
monies due to Contractor from Owner. 
 
17.9 Owner reserves the right to request and receive a certified copy of any policy and 
any endorsement thereto. 
 
17.10 The parties hereto understand and agree that Owner is relying on, and does not 
waive or intend to waive by any provision of this contract, the monetary 
limitations (presently $150,000 per person and $600,000 per occurrence) or any 
other rights, immunities, and protections provided by the Colorado Governmental 
Immunity Act, C.R.S. § 24-10-101  et seq ., as amended, or otherwise available to 
Owner, its officers, or its employees. 
 
17.11 The Agreement shall not be executed, and no notice or authorization to proceed 
shall be given to Contractor until the Certificates required above, are submitted 
and approved by the Owner. 
 
ARTICLE 18 
PROPERTY INSURANCE : 
 
18.1 Unless otherwise provided, the Contractor shall purchase and maintain property 
insurance upon the entire Work at the site to the full insurable value thereof.  This 
insurance shall include the interest of the Owner, the Contractor, Subcontractors 
and Sub-Subcontractors in the Work and shall insure against the perils of Fire, 
Theft, Extended Coverage, Vandalism and Malicious Mischief.  Such policy shall 
be an "all-risk" Builders Risk policy. 
 
18.2 Any insured loss is to be adjusted with the Owner and made payable to the 
Owner as trustee for the insureds, as their interests may appear, subject to the 
requirements of any mortgagee clause. 
 
18.3 The Contractor shall file a copy of all such policies with the Owner prior to the 
commencement of the Work. 
 
18.4 The Owner and Contractor waive all rights against each other for damages 
caused by fire or other perils to the extent covered by insurance provided under 
this paragraph.  The Contractor shall require similar waivers by Subcontractors 
and Sub-Subcontractors. 
 
ARTICLE 19 


ACCEPTANCE OF THE WORK: 
 
19.1 The Contractor shall correct any Work that fails to conform to the requirements of 
the Contract Documents where such failure to conform appears during the 
progress of the Work, and shall remedy any defects due to faulty materials, 
equipment or workmanship which appear within a period of one year from the 
Date of Final Settlement of the Contract or within such longer period of time as 
may be prescribed by law or by the terms of any applicable special guarantee 
required by the Contract Documents.  The provisions of this Article apply to Work 
done by Subcontractors as well as to Work done by direct employees of the 
Contractor, and are in addition to any other remedies or warranties provided by 
law. 
 
19.2 No act of the Owner or the Owner's Representative, either in superintending or 
directing the Work, or any extension of time for the completion of the Work, shall 
be regarded as an acceptance of such Work or any part thereof, or of materials 
used therein, either wholly or in part.  Acceptance shall be evidenced only by the 
final certificate of the Owner.  Before any final certificate shall issue, Contractor 
shall execute an affidavit on the certificate that it accepts the same in full 
payment and settlement of all claims on account of Work done and materials 
furnished under this Contract, and that all claims for materials provided or labor 
performed have been paid or set aside in full.  No waiver of any breach of this 
Contract by the Owner or anyone acting on Owner's behalf shall be held as a 
waiver of any other subsequent breach thereof.  
 
19.3 Contractor agrees to guarantee all work under this Contract for a period of one 
year from the date of Final Settlement by the Owner.  If any unsatisfactory 
condition or damage develops within the time of this guaranty due to materials or 
workmanship that are defective, inferior, or not in accordance with the Contract, 
as reasonably determined by the Owner or the OR, then the Contractor shall, 
when notified by the Owner or OR, immediately place such guaranteed Work in a 
condition satisfactory to the Owner or OR 
 
ARTICLE 20 
CHANGES IN THE WORK: 
 
20.1 The Owner without invalidating the Contract may order Changes in the Work 
consisting of additions, deletions, or modifications with the Contract Sum and the 
Contract Time being adjusted accordingly.   
 
20.2 All such changes in the Work shall be authorized by written Change Order signed 
by the Owner.  
 
20.3 The Contract Sum and the Contract Time may be changed only by Change 
Order. 
 


20.4 The cost or credit to the Owner, if any, from a Change in the Work shall be 
determined by unit prices if specified in the contract documents, or by mutual 
agreement.  
 
ARTICLE 21 
TERMINATION BY THE CONTRACTOR: 
 
If the OR fails to issue a payment for a period of thirty days through no fault of the 
Contractor, or if the Owner fails to make payment thereon for a period of thirty days 
from issuance of a payment, the Contractor may, upon fourteen days' written notice to 
the Owner and the OR, terminate the Contract, provided however, that OR or Owner 
shall first have an opportunity to remit such payment within the fourteen day period 
following written notice.    
 
ARTICLE 22 
TERMINATION BY THE OWNER: 
If the Contractor defaults or neglects to carry out the Work in accordance with the 
Contract Documents or fails to perform any provision of the Contract, the Owner may, 
after fourteen days' written notice to the Contractor and without prejudice to any other 
remedy Owner may have, make good such deficiencies and may deduct the cost 
thereof from the payment then or thereafter due the Contractor or, at Owner's option, 
may terminate Contractor's work under the Contract and take possession of the site and 
of all materials, equipment, tools, and construction equipment and machinery thereon 
owned by the Contractor and may finish the Work by whatever method Owner may 
deem expedient, and if the unpaid balance of the Contract Sum exceeds the expense of 
finishing the Work, such excess shall be paid to the Contractor, but if such expense 
exceeds such unpaid balance, the Contractor shall pay the difference to the Owner.  
These rights and remedies are in addition to any right to damages or other rights and 
remedies allowed by law.  
 
ARTICLE 23 
PERMITS: 
 
Contractor shall obtain and pay for all necessary permits and licenses relative to the 
Project. 
 
ARTICLE 24 
CONDITIONS OF THE WORK SITE: 
 
24.1 The information and data shown or indicated in the Contract Documents with 
respect to existing underground facilities at or contiguous to the site is based 
upon information and data furnished to the County by the owners of such 
underground facilities.  The County shall not be responsible for the accuracy or 
completeness of any such information or data, to the extent that it does not 
concern County-owned facilities.   
 


24.2 Contractor shall be responsible for reviewing and checking all such information 
and data, locating all underground facilities as shown or indicated in the Contract 
Documents, coordination of the Work with the owners of such facilities, and the 
safety and protection of all such underground facilities, and repairing any 
damage thereto resulting from the Work.  
 
ARTICLE 25 
SAFETY: 
 
Contractor shall be responsible for initiating, maintaining and supervising all safety 
precautions and programs in connections with the Work.  The Contractor shall take all 
reasonable safety precautions and provide all reasonable protection to prevent damage, 
injury, or loss to all employees and Subcontractors at the work site and all other persons 
affected by the Work, all materials and equipment in the care and custody of the 
Contractor or Subcontractor, all Work, and all property at the work site. 
 
ARTICLE 26 
LIQUIDATED DAMAGES: 
 
26.1 Owner and Contractor recognize that time is of the essence here and the Owner 
will suffer financial loss if the Work is not complete within the time specified 
above, plus any extensions thereof allowed.  If the Contractor fails to perform the 
Work within the specified time set forth in the Contract Documents as adjusted 
pursuant to this Article, the Owner and Contractor agree that as liquidated 
damages, and not as a penalty, for delay in performance the Contractor shall pay 
the Owner in the amount stipulated below for each and every calendar day that 
expires after  _______________  where the Work is not complete and ready for 
Final Payment, the Owner shall have the right to deduct liquidated damages from 
any amount due or that may become due to the Contractor, or to collect such 
liquidated damages from the Contractor or the Surety.  The Owner has the option 
to enforce liquidated damages or to waive such damages.   
 
26.2 The liquidated damages herein specified shall only apply to Contractor's delay in 
performance.  Liquidated damages are intended only to compensate the Owner 
for additional personnel efforts in administering the Contract after normally 
scheduled completions dates, Owner inconvenience, lost opportunities, and lost 
confidence in government and morale of government when work is not 
completed on time.  
 
26.3 Such damages are uncertain in amount and difficult to measure and prove 
accurately.  By executing this Contract, the Contractor agrees that the liquidated 
damages specified herein are reasonable in amount and are not disproportionate 
to actual anticipated damages.  Liquidated damages do not include any sums of 
money to reimburse the Owner for extra costs which the Owner may become 
obligated to pay on other contracts which are delayed or extended because of 
Contractor's failure to complete the Work within the time period as specified 


herein, including costs associated with the delay or interference with the Project.  
Liquidated damages are not intended to include litigation costs or attorney fees 
incurred by the Owner, or other incidental or consequential damages suffered by 
the Owner due to the Contractor's performance.  If the Owner charges liquidated 
damages to the Contractor, this shall not preclude the Owner from commencing 
an action against the Contractor for other actual harm resulting from the 
Contractor's performance, including but not limited to, costs associated with the 
delay or interference with the Project. 
 
26.4 In order to recover liquidated damages, the Owner is under no obligation to prove 
the actual damages sustained by the Owner due to the Contractor's delay in 
performance.  The parties agree that liquidated damages shall be computed 
according to the following schedule, based upon the Contract Price, inclusive of 
any applicable changes thereto, for each and every day that completion of the 
Work shall be delayed: 
 
 
TOTAL CONTRACT PRICE  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liquidated 
From    
To and Including   
 
 
 
     Damages/per day  
 
$0 
 
$500,000 
 
 
 
 
 
$300.00 
 
$500,000 
$1,000,000  
 
 
 
 
$500.00 
 
$1,000,000 (and above)  
 
 
 
 
$800.00 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 27 
SPECIAL/MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS: 
 
27.1 Each Party hereto agrees to cooperate in all reasonable respects necessary to 
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Contract, and from time to 
time to do such acts and things and execute and deliver such documents and 
instruments as may reasonably be required in order to implement the 
transactions contemplated hereby.  Each Party hereto agrees to cooperate in the 
execution of subsequent Addenda, or to re-execute an amended version of this 
Agreement, in the event that a Party discovers: 1) a clerical error; or 2) a 
misinterpretation of the law; or 3) an error as to form; when such error(s) obviate 
or hinder the consideration, performance, or enforcement of this Agreement. 
 
27.2 This contract is governed by the laws of the State of Colorado and any action to 
enforce any of the provisions, obligations or covenants of this contract shall be 
commenced only in a court of proper jurisdiction in Montrose County, Colorado. 
 
27.3 Contractor shall not assign this contract.  The provisions of the contract are 
binding on the heirs, successors or assignees of the parties. 
 
27.4 The rights and remedies available under this contract shall be in addition to any 
rights and remedies allowed by law. 
 


27.5 No failure to enforce any provision of the contract on account of any breach 
thereof, shall be considered as a waiver of any right to enforce provisions of this 
contract concerning any subsequent or continuing breach.   
 
27.6 If any provision of this Agreement is declared by any court of competent 
jurisdiction to be invalid for   any reason, such invalidity shall not effect the 
remaining provisions.  On the contrary, such remaining provisions shall be fully 
severable, and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such invalid 
provisions never had been inserted in this Agreement. 
 
27.7 The terms of this agreement shall remain in full force and effect following final 
payment. 
 
27.8 Contractor shall comply with the requirements of Colorado Revised Statutes 8-
17.5-101,  et seq . and shall abide by the certification attached hereto as For 
Services Addendum. 
 

27.9   Sole Source Contracts .  To the extent this contract may be construed to be a 
“sole source contract” within the meaning of sections 15 through 17 of Article 
XXVIII of the Colorado Constitution, and to the extent these constitutional 
provisions have not been enjoined or invalidated by a court of competent 
jurisdiction, the requirements and limitations of these constitutional provisions are 
hereby incorporated in this contract.  

 
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS 
COUNTY OF MONTROSE, COLORADO 
 
By: 
__________________                                                                                           
          David White, Chairman 
 
Attest: ______________________  
           Deputy Clerk and Recorder 
 
CONTRACTOR: 
 
By: _________________________________                                                                               
 
 
__________________________________________ 
Printed name 
 
 
Title:   ____________________________________  
 


ADDENDUM  
 
NOTIFICATION OF IMMIGRATION COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS AND  
CERTIFICATION BY CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
____________________ ,  (“Contractor” herein) acknowledges that Contractor has been 
notified of the immigration compliance requirements of C.R.S. § 8-17.5-101,  et.seq.  (House Bill 
06-1343), and hereby  CERTIFIES  that: 
 
 
1.  
The Contractor shall not knowingly employ or contract with an illegal alien to 
perform work under the public contract for services; or  
 
 
2. 
Enter into a contract with a subcontractor that fails to certify to the Contractor that 
the subcontractor shall not knowingly employ or contract with an illegal alien to perform work 
under the public contract for services; 
 
 
3.  
The Contractor has verified or attempted to verify through participation in the 
basic pilot program that the Contractor does not employ any illegal aliens and, if the Contractor 
is not accepted into the basic pilot program prior to entering into a public contract for services, 
that the Contractor shall apply to participate in the basic pilot program every three months until 
the Contractor is accepted or the public contract for services has been completed, whichever is 
earlier.  This provision shall not be required or effective in a public contract for services if the 
basic pilot program is discontinued;  
 
 
4.  
The Contractor acknowledges that the Contractor is prohibited from using basic 
pilot program procedures to undertake pre-employment screening of job applicants while the 
public contract for services is being performed;  
 
 
5.  
If the Contractor obtains actual knowledge that a subcontractor performing work 
under the public contract for services knowingly employs or contracts with an illegal alien, the 
Contractor shall be required to: 
 
(A) 
Notify the subcontractor and the contracting state agency or political subdivision 
within three days that the Contractor has actual knowledge that the subcontractor is 
employing or contracting with an illegal alien; and 
 
(B) 
Terminate the subcontract with the subcontractor if within three days of receiving 
the notice required pursuant to subparagraph (A) of this Section 5 the subcontractor does 
not stop employing or contracting with the illegal alien; except that the Contractor shall 
not terminate the contract with the subcontractor if during such three days the 
subcontractor provides information to establish that the subcontractor has not knowingly 
employed or contracted with an illegal alien. 
 
6.  
Contractor is required to comply with any reasonable request by the State 
Department of Labor and Employment (“Department” herein) made in the course of an 


investigation that the Department is undertaking pursuant to the authority established in C.R.S. § 
8-17.5-102(5). 
 
 
7. 
If Contractor violates a provision of the public contract for services required 
herein may terminate the contract for a breach of the contract.  If the contract is so terminated, 
the Contractor shall be liable for actual and consequential damages to the County. 
 
 
8. 
The County is obligated to notify the office of the secretary of state if a contractor 
violates a provision of this Addendum and the County terminates the contract for such breach.  
Based on this notification, the secretary of state shall maintain a list that includes the name of the 
Contractor, the state agency or political subdivision that terminated the public contract for 
services, and the date of the termination.  A contractor shall be removed from the list if two years 
have passed since the date the contract was terminated, or if a court of competent jurisdiction 
determines that there has not been a violation of the provision of the public contract for services 
required pursuant to Section I.  An agency or political subdivision shall notify the office of the 
secretary of state if a court has made such a determination. The list shall be available for public 
inspection at the office of the secretary of state and shall be published on the internet on the 
website maintained by the office of the secretary of state. 
 
 
9. 
The Department may investigate whether a contractor is complying with the 
provisions of a public contract for services required pursuant to Section I.  The Department may 
conduct on-site inspections where a public contract for services is being performed, request and 
review documentation that proves the citizenship of any person performing work on a public 
contract for services, or take any other reasonable steps that are necessary to determine whether a 
contractor is complying with the provisions of a public contract for services required pursuant to 
Section I.  The Department shall receive complaints of suspected violations of a provision of a 
public contract for services (this Addendum) and shall have discretion to determine which 
complaints, if any, are to be investigated.  The results of any investigation shall not constitute 
final agency action.  The Contractor is hereby notified that the Department is authorized to 
promulgate rules in accordance with article 4 of title 24, C.R.S., to implement the provisions of 
C.R.S. § 8-17.5-101,  et. seq . 
 
 
Dated this                  day of                                     , 20XX. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[CONTRACTOR] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By                                                                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                            [Printed Name]  
 
 DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

IFB

Yes
10/ 17/ 17
Jody Word
Concrete Repair Services
6547

21, 976, 261. 84

10/ 17/ 2020

2017- 321

Contract 6547

CONTRACT BY AND BETWEEN

CITY OF DENTON, TEXAS AND FLOYD SMITH, INC.

IFB #6547)

THIS CONTRACT is made and entered into this date , by
and between Floyd Smith Concrete, Inc., whose address is P.O. Box 1781, Denton, TX 76202
hereinafter referred to as "Contractor," and the CITY OF DENTON, TEXAS, a Texas Municipal
Corporation and Home- Rule City, hereinafter referred to as " City," to be effective upon approval
of the Denton City Council and the subsequent execution of this Contract by the Denton City
Manager, or his duly authorized designee.
For and in consideration of the covenants and agreements contained herein, and for the
mutual benefits to be obtained hereby, the parties agree as follows:
SCOPE OF SERVICES

Contractor shall provide construction services in accordance with the City’s IFB #6547-
Concrete Repair Services, a copy of which is on file at the office of Purchasing Agent and
incorporated herein for all purposes as “ Exhibit B”. The Contract consists of this written
agreement and the following items which are attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference:
a) Special Terms and Conditions ( Exhibit “ A”);
b) City of Denton Request for Bid # 6547 (Exhibit “B” on file at Office of Purchasing Agent)
c) General Provisions-Standard Terms and Conditions (Exhibit “C”);
d) Payment and Performance Bond Requirements ( Exhibit “ D”);
e) Insurance Requirements (Exhibit “E”);
f) Certificate of Interested Parties Electronic Filing ( Exhibit “ F”);
g) Form CIQ – Conflict of Interest Questionnaire (Exhibit "G")
h) Contractor’ s Proposal. ( Exhibit “ H");
These documents make up the Contract documents and what is called for by one shall be
as binding as if called for by all. In the event of an inconsistency or conflict in any of the provisions
of the Contract documents, the inconsistency or conflict shall be resolved by giving precedence
first to this written Contract, and then to the Contract documents in the sequential order in which
they are listed above. These documents shall be referred to collectively as “ Contract Documents.”
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties of these presents have executed this Contract in
the year and day first above written.
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

October 17, 2017

Contract 6547

CONTRACTOR

BY: ______________________________
AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE
Date: _______________________________
Name: ______________________________
Title: _______________________________

PHONE NUMBER

EMAIL ADDRESS
2017- 268846

TEXAS ETHICS COMMISSION
CERTIFICATE NUMBER
CITY OF DENTON, TEXAS
A Texas Municipal Corporation

By: _________________________
TODD HILEMAN
CITY MANAGER

ATTEST:
JENNIFER WALTERS, CITY SECRETARY

By: _________________________________
APPROVED AS TO LEGAL FORM:
AARON LEAL, INTERIM CITY ATTORNEY

By: _________________________________

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Floyd Smith Concrete, Inc.

fscinc1@verizon. net
940- 565- 0114
10/ 6/ 2017

President, CEO

Contract 6547

EXHIBIT A

SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Total Contract Amount
The Contract total for services shall not exceed $21,976,261.84. Pricing shall be per Exhibit H
attached.
Contract Term
It is the intention of the City of Denton to award a contract for a one ( 1) year period. The City and

the Awarded Contractor shall have the option to renew this contract for an additional three (3) one-
year periods. Materials and services undertaken pursuant to this solicitation will be required to

commence within fourteen (14) days of delivery of a Notice to Proceed.
The Contract shall commence upon the issuance of a Notice of Award by the City of Denton and
shall automatically renew each year, from the date of award by City Council, unless either party
notifies the other prior to the scheduled renewal date in accordance with the provision of the section
titled “ price adjustments”, or the section( s) titled “ termination” in Exhibit 2. At the sole option of
the City of Denton, the Contract may be further extended as needed, not to exceed a total of six
6) months.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547

EXHIBIT C

GENERAL PROVISIONS- TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR FACILITY

CONSTRUCTION SERVICES

Invoices, Payments, and Releases
1. INVOICES AND PAYMENT PROCESSING:
Payment processing: The City review, inspection, and processing procedures for invoices
ordinarily require thirty ( 30) days after receipt of invoices, materials, or services. Proposals
which call for payment before thirty (30) days from receipt of invoice, or cash discounts given
on such payment, will be considered only if, in the opinion of the Purchasing Manager, the
review, inspection, and processing procedures can be completed as specified. It is the intention
of the City of Denton to make payment within thirty ( 30) days after receipt of valid invoices
for which items or services have been received unless unusual circumstances arise. The thirty
30) day processing period for invoices will begin on the date the invoice is received or the
date the items or services are received, whichever date is later.
Direct deposit for payments: Prime Contractors are encouraged to arrange for receiving
payments through direct deposit. Information regarding direct deposit payments is available
from the City of Denton Purchasing website: www. dentonpurchasing. com.
Invoices: Invoices shall be sent directly to the City of Denton Accounts Payable Department,
215 E McKinney St, Denton, TX, 76201- 4299 with a copy to the attention of Keith Gabbard,
City of Denton Street Department, 901-A Texas Street, Denton, TX 76209. The copy may
also be emailed to Mr. Gabbard at keith. gabbard@cityofdenton. com . Invoices must be fully
documented as to labor, materials, and equipment provided, if applicable, and must
reference the City of Denton Purchase Order Number in order to be processed. No
payments shall be made on invoices not listing a Purchase Order Number. Invoices for
partial payments on construction projects should normally be presented for payment within the
first five (5) days of the month, and submitted on the Pay Application Form.
2. TAX EXEMPTION:
The City of Denton qualifies for sales tax exemption pursuant to the provisions of Article 20.04
F) of the Texas Limited Sales, Excise and Use Tax Act. Any Prime Contractor performing
work under this Contract for the City of Denton may purchase materials and supplies and rent
or lease equipment sales tax free. This is accomplished by issuing exemption certificates to
suppliers. Certificates must comply with State Comptroller’ s ruling #95-0.07 and #95-0.09.
3. PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTORS:
A. Upon presentation of valid invoices, which should be within the first week of each month,
the Owner shall make partial payments to the Prime Contractor for construction
accomplished during the preceding calendar month on the basis of completed construction
certified to by the Prime Contractor and approved by the Owner and Architect/Engineer
solely for the purposes of payment. Provided, however, that such approval shall not be
deemed approval of the workmanship or materials. Only ninety-five percent (95%) of each
payment request approved during the construction of the project shall be paid by the Owner

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
to the Prime Contractor prior to completion of the Project. Upon the approval by the Owner
of the Prime Contractor’ s " Final Invoice for Payment” showing the total cost of the
construction performed, the Owner shall make payment to the Prime Contractor of all
amounts to which the Prime Contractor shall be entitled there under which shall not have
been paid: Provided, however, that such final payment shall be made not later than ninety
90) days after the date of completion of construction of the Project, as specified in the
Final Invoice for Payment, unless withheld because of the fault of the Prime Contractor.

B. The Prime Contractor shall be paid on the basis of the percentage of the work actually
completed for each construction item. The total amount paid for periodic billings shall not
exceed the maximum Contract price for the construction of the project as set forth in the
Contract, unless such excess shall have been approved in writing by the Purchasing Agent
as part of a change order.
C. No payment shall be due while the Prime Contractor is in default in respect of any of the
provisions of this Contract, and the Owner may withhold from the Prime Contractor the
amount of any claim by any third party against either the Prime Contractor or the Owner
based upon an alleged failure of the Prime Contractor to perform the work hereunder in
accordance with the provisions of this Contract. This includes, without limitation, the
alleged failure of the Prime Contractor to make payments to subcontractors.

4. RELEASE OF LIENS AND CERTIFICATE OF CONTRACTOR:
Upon award of the Contract, the Prime Contractor shall inform the Owner of the subcontractors
and material sources that will be used. Upon the completion by the Prime Contractor of the
construction of the Project, but prior to final payment to the Prime Contractor, the Prime
Contractor shall deliver to the Owner releases of all liens, and of rights to claim any lien, from
all manufacturers, materialmen and subcontractors furnishing services or materials for the
Project, to the effect that all materials or services used on or for the Project have been paid for
and indicating that the Owner is fully released from all such claims.
5. PAYMENTS TO MATERIALMEN AND SUBCONTRACTORS:
The Prime Contractor shall pay each materialman, and each subcontractor, if any, not later than
five ( 5) days after receipt of any payment from the Owner, the amount thereof allowed the
Contractor for and on account of materials furnished or construction performed by each
materialman or each subcontractor.
6. REMEDIES:
A. Completion of Prime Contractor’ s Default
If default shall be made by the Prime Contractor or by any subcontractor in the performance
of any of the terms of this proposal, the Owner, without in any manner limiting its legal
and equitable remedies in the circumstances, may serve upon the Prime Contractor and the
Surety or Sureties upon the Prime Contractor' s bond or bonds a written notice requiring the
Prime Contractor to cause such default to be corrected forthwith. Unless within twenty

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
20) days after the service of such notice upon the Prime Contractor such default shall be
corrected or arrangements for the correction thereof satisfactory to the Owner and/or
Architect/ Engineer shall be made by the Prime Contractor or its Surety or Sureties, the
Owner may take over the construction of the Project and prosecute the same to completion
by Contract or otherwise for the account and at the expense of the Prime Contractor, and
the Prime Contractor and its Surety or Sureties shall be liable to the Owner for any cost or
expense in excess of the Contract price occasioned thereby. In such event the Owner may
take possession of and utilize, in completing the construction of the project, any materials,
tools, supplies, equipment, appliances, and plant belonging to the Prime Contractor or any
of its subcontractors, which may be situated at the site of the Project. The Owner in such
contingency may exercise any rights, claims or demands which the Prime Contractor may
have against third persons in connection with this Contract and for such purpose the Prime
Contractor does hereby assign, transfer and set over unto the Owner all such rights claims
and demands.

B. Liquidated Damages
The time of the completion of construction of the project is of the essence of the
contract. Should the Contractor neglect, refuse or fail to complete the construction within
the time herein agreed upon, after giving effect to extensions of time, if any, herein provided,
then, in that event and in view of the difficulty of estimating with exactness damages caused
by such delay, the City shall have the right to deduct from and retain out of such money
which may be then due or which may become due and payable to the Contractor the sum of
FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($ 500.00) per day for each and every day, including
weekends, that such construction is delayed on its completion beyond the specified time, as
liquidated damages and not as a penalty; if the amount due and to become due from the City
to the Contractor is insufficient to pay in full any such liquidated damages, the Contractor
shall pay to the City the amount necessary to effect such payment in full: Provided,
however, that the City shall promptly notify the Contractor in writing of the manner in which
the amount retained, deducted or claimed as liquidated damages was computed.

C. Cumulative Remedies
Every right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Owner shall be cumulative,
shall be in addition to every right and remedy now or hereafter existing at law or in equity
or by statute, and the pursuit of any right or remedy shall not be construed as an
election. Provided, however, that the provisions of the REMEDIES SECTION shall be
the exclusive measure of damages for failure by the Prime Contractor to complete the
construction of the Project within the time herein agreed upon.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
CITY OF DENTON GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION

ARTICLE 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS

GENERAL DEFINITIONS
1.1 The following definitions apply throughout these General Conditions and to the other
Contract Documents:
a) THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
The Contract Documents consist of the formal Building Construction Services Agreement
between the Owner and the Prime Contractor, these General Conditions and other
supplementary conditions included by special provisions or addenda, drawings,
specifications, addenda issued prior to execution of the Contract, other documents listed in
the Contract, and Amendments issued after execution of the Contract. For purposes of these
General Conditions, an Amendment is:
1) a written Supplemental Agreement to the Contract signed by authorized representatives
of both parties;
2) a Change Order, including Change Orders signed only by the Owner as described in
Subparagraph 7.1(b) and Subparagraph 7.1(e); or
3) a written order for a minor change in the Work issued by the Architect/Engineer as
described in Paragraph 7.3.
The Contract Documents also include bid documents such as the Owner’ s Instructions to
Bidders, sample forms, the Prime Contractor's Bid Proposal and portions of addenda
relating to any of these documents, and any other documents, exhibits or attachments
specifically enumerated in the Building Construction Services Agreement, but specifically
exclude geotechnical and subsurface reports that the Owner may have provided to the
Prime Contractor.
b) THE CONTRACT
The Contract Documents, as defined in Paragraph 1.1, are expressly incorporated into and
made a part of the formal Building Construction Services Agreement between the Owner
and the Prime Contractor by reference in this Paragraph and Paragraph 1.1 ( which
documents are sometimes also referred to collectively in these General Conditions as the
Contract”). The Contract Documents represent the entire and integrated agreement
between the Owner and the Prime Contractor and supersede all prior negotiations,
representations or agreements, either written or oral. The terms and conditions of the
Contract Documents may be changed only by an Amendment. The Contract Documents
shall not be construed to create a contractual relationship of any kind:

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
1) between the Architect/Engineer and Prime Contractor;
2) between the Owner and a Subcontractor or -subcontractor; or
3) between any persons or entities other than the Owner and Prime Contractor.
The Architect/ Engineer shall, however, be entitled to performance and enforcement of
obligations under the Contract Documents intended to facilitate performance of the
Architect/ Engineer’ s duties.
c) THE WORK
The term “ Work” means the construction and services required by the Contract Documents,
whether completed or partially completed, and includes all labor, materials, equipment,
and services provided or to be provided by the Prime Contractor, or any Subcontractors,
Sub-subcontractors, material suppliers, or any other entity for whom the Prime Contractor
is responsible, to fulfill the Prime Contractor’ s obligations. The Work may constitute the
whole or a part of the Project.
d) THE PROJECT
The Project is the total construction more particularly described in the Building
Construction Services Agreement, of which the Work performed under the Contract
Documents may be the whole or a part of the Project and which may include construction
by the Owner or by separate contractors. All references in these General Conditions to or
concerning the Work or the site of the Work will use the term “Project,” notwithstanding
that the Work may only be a part of the Project.
e) THE DRAWINGS
The Drawings ( also known as the “ Plans”) are the graphic and pictorial portions of the
Contract Documents, wherever located and whenever issued, showing the design, location
and dimensions of the Work, generally including plans, elevations, sections, details,
schedules, and diagrams.
f) THE SPECIFICATIONS
The Specifications are that portion of the Contract Documents consisting of the written
requirements for materials, equipment, construction systems, standards, and workmanship
for the Work, performance of related services, and other technical requirements.
g) THE PROJECT MANUAL
The Project Manual is the volume or volumes which contain the bidding requirements,
sample forms, General Conditions for Building Construction, special provisions, and
Specifications. The Project Manual may be modified by written addendums issued by the
Owner during bidding, in which case the written addendums become a part of the Project
Manual upon their issuance, unless otherwise indicated by the Owner in writing.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
h) ALTERNATE
An Alternate is a variation in the Work on which the Owner requires a price separate from
the City Building General Conditions Base Bid. If an Alternate is accepted by the Owner,
the variation will become a part of the Contract through the execution of a change order or
amendment to the Contract and the Base Bid will be adjusted to include the amount quoted.
If an alternate is accepted by the Owner, and later deleted prior to any Work under the
alternate being performed or materials delivered to the Project site, the Owner will be
entitled to a credit in the full value of the alternate as priced in the Prime Contractor’ s Bid.
i) BASE BID
The Base Bid is the price quoted for the Work before Alternates are considered.
j) HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE
The term Hazardous Substance is defined to include the following:
1) any asbestos or any material which contains any hydrated mineral silicate, including
chrysolite, amosite, crocidolite, tremolite, anthophylite or actinolite, whether friable or
non-friable;
2) any polychlorinated biphenyls (“ PCBs”), or PCB- containing materials, or fluids;
3) radon;
4) any other hazardous, radioactive, toxic or noxious substance, material, pollutant, or
solid, liquid or gaseous waste;
5) any pollutant or contaminant ( including but not limited to petroleum, petroleum
hydrocarbons, petroleum products, crude oil or any fractions thereof, any oil or gas
exploration or production waste, any natural gas, synthetic gas or any mixture thereof,
lead, or other toxic metals) which in its condition, concentration or area of release could
have a significant effect on human health, the environment, or natural resources;
6) any substance that, whether by its nature or its use, is subject to regulation or requires
environmental investigation, monitoring, or remediation under any federal, state, or
local environmental laws, rules, or regulations;
7) any underground storage tanks, as defined in 42 U.S.C. Section 6991(1)(A)(I)
including those defined by Section 9001( 1) of the 1984 Hazardous and Solid Waste
Amendments to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 6901
et seq.; the Texas Water Code Annotated Section 26.344; and Title 30 of the Texas
Administrative Code Sections 334.3 and 334.4), whether empty, filled or partially filled
with any substance; and
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
8) any other hazardous material, hazardous waste, hazardous substance, solid waste, and
toxic substance as those or similar terms are defined under any federal, state, or local
environmental laws, rules, or regulations.
k) OTHER DEFINITIONS
As used in the Contract Documents, the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
1) “ provide” means to furnish, install, fabricate, deliver and erect, including all services,
materials, appurtenances and other expenses to complete in place, ready for operation
or use;
2) “ shall” means the action of the party to which reference is being made is mandatory;
3) “ as required” means as prescribed in the Contract Documents; and
4) “ as necessary” means all action essential or needed to complete the work in accordance
with the Contract Documents and applicable laws, ordinances, construction codes, and
regulations.

1.2 EXECUTION, CORRELATION AND INTENT
a) The Building Construction Services Agreement shall be signed by duly authorized
representatives of the Owner and Prime Contractor as provided in the Agreement.
b) Execution of the Building Construction Services Agreement by the Prime Contractor is a
representation that the Prime Contractor has visited the site, has become familiar with local
conditions, including but not limited to subsurface conditions, under which the Work is to
be performed and correlated personal observations with requirements of the Contract
Documents.
c) The intent of the Contract Documents is to include all items necessary for the proper
execution and completion of the Work by the Prime Contractor. The Contract Documents
are complementary, and what is required by one shall be as binding as if required by all;
performance by the Prime Contractor shall be required only to the extent consistent with
the Contract Documents and reasonably inferable from them as being necessary to produce
the intended results.
d) Organization of the Specifications into divisions, sections, and articles, and arrangement
of Drawings shall not control the Prime Contractor in dividing the Work among
Subcontractor(s) or in establishing the extent of Work to be performed by any trade.
e) Unless otherwise stated in the Contract Documents, words which have well-known
technical or construction industry meanings are used in the Contract Documents in
accordance with such recognized meanings.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
f) The Drawings and Specifications are intended to agree with one another, and Work called
for by Drawings and not mentioned in Specifications, or vice versa, shall be furnished as
if set forth by both. Specifications shall govern materials, methods and quality of work. In
the event of a conflict on the Drawings between scale and dimension, figured dimensions
shall govern over scale dimensions and large scale drawings shall govern over small scale
drawings. Conflict between two or more dimensions applying to a common point shall be
referred to the Architect/ Engineer/ Engineer for final adjustment. If discrepancies or
conflicts occur within or between the Drawings and Specifications regarding the Work, or
within or between other Contract Documents, the Prime Contractor shall not perform such
Work without having obtained a clarification from the Architect/Engineer and resolution
by the Owner. The Owner' s decision as to the appropriate resolution of a conflict or
discrepancy shall be final. Should the Drawings or the Specifications disagree within
themselves or with each other; the Base Bid will be based on the most expensive
combination of quality and quantity of Work indicated.
g) Deviations from Contract Documents shall be made only after written approval is
obtained from Architect/ Engineer and Owner, as provided in Article 7.
h) The intention of the Contract Documents is to include all materials, labor, tools,
equipment, utilities, appliances, accessories, services, transportation, and supervision
required to completely perform the fabrication, erection and execution of the Work in
its final position.
i) The most recently issued Drawing or Specification takes precedence over previous
issues of the same Drawing or Specification. In the event of a conflict, the order of
precedence of interpretation of the Contract Documents is as follows:
1) Amendments (see Paragraph 7.2 for order of precedence between Amendments);
2) the Building Construction Services Agreement;
3) addenda, with those addenda of later date having precedence over those of an earlier
date;
4) the Supplementary General Conditions and Special Provisions, if any;
5) the General Conditions for Building Construction;
6) 0the Specifications and Drawings.

1.3OWNERSHIP AND USE OF ARCHITECT/ENGINEER’S DRAWINGS,
SPECIFICATIONS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS
All Drawings, Specifications, and copies thereof furnished by the Architect/ Engineer are and
shall remain the property of the Owner and are, with the exception of the Contract set for each
party, to be returned to the Owner upon request at the completion of the Work.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
1.4 CAPITALIZATION
Terms capitalized in these General Conditions include those which are:
1) specifically defined in these General Conditions ( except the terms defined in Subparagraph
1.1(j), which terms are of common grammatical usage and are not normally capitalized);
2) the titles of numbered articles and identified references to Paragraphs, Subparagraphs, and
Clauses;
3) the titles of other documents published or used by the Owner as manuals or official policy
statements; or
4) proper nouns or other words required under standard grammatical rules to be capitalized.
ARTICLE 2 - THE OWNER
2.1 DEFINITION OF OWNER
The Owner is the City of Denton, a Texas municipal corporation, and is identified as such in
the Building Construction Services Agreement, and is referred to throughout the Contract
Documents as if singular in number. The term “ Owner” means the Owner or the Owner’s
authorized representatives.
2.2 INFORMATION AND SERVICES REQUIRED OF THE OWNER
a) The Owner shall furnish the most recent survey describing the physical characteristics,
legal limits, utility locations, and a permanent benchmark for the site of the Project. The
Owner shall also furnish any environmental site assessments that may have been given to
the Owner or conducted for the property upon which the Project is to be constructed. THIS
INFORMATION IS FURNISHED TO THE PRIME CONTRACTOR ONLY IN ORDER
TO MAKE DISCLOSURE OF THIS MATERIAL AND FOR NO OTHER PURPOSE.
BY FURNISHING THIS MATERIAL, THE OWNER DOES NOT REPRESENT,
WARRANT, OR GUARANTEE ITS ACCURACY EITHER IN WHOLE, IN PART,
IMPLICITLY OR EXPLICITLY, OR IN ANY OTHER WAY, AND THE OWNER
SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR THIS MATERIAL.
b) Except for permits and fees which are provided for in Subparagraph 3.7(a), the Owner shall
secure and pay for necessary approvals, easements, assessments, and charges required for
construction, use, or occupancy of permanent structures or for permanent changes in
existing facilities.
c) Information or services under the Owner’ s control shall be furnished by the Owner with
reasonable promptness to avoid delay in the orderly progress of the Work. It is incumbent
upon the Prime Contractor to identify, establish, and maintain a current schedule of latest
dates for submittal and approval, as required in Paragraph 3.10, including when such
information or services must be delivered. If Owner delivers the information or services to
the Prime Contractor as scheduled and Prime Contractor is not prepared to accept or act on

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
such information or services, then Prime Contractor shall reimburse Owner for all extra
costs incurred of holding, storage, or retention, including redeliveries by the Owner to
comply with the current schedule.
d) Unless otherwise provided in the Contract Documents, the Prime Contractor will be
furnished electronic copies of the Drawings and Specifications for bid purposes and one
hard copy approved by Building Inspections upon execution of the Contract. Prime
Contractor may obtain additional copies by paying the cost of additional printing or
reproduction.
e) The obligations described above are in addition to other duties and responsibilities of the
Owner enumerated in the Contract Documents and especially those in respect to Article 6
Construction by Owner or by Separate Contractors), Article 9 ( Payments and
Completion), and Article 11 (Insurance and Bonds).
f) The Owner shall forward all instructions to the Prime Contractor through the
Architect/ Engineer, except for the Owner' s Notice to Proceed and the Owner’ s decision to
carry out Work as described in Paragraph 2.4.
g) The Owner’s employees, agents, and consultants may be present at the Project site during
performance of the Work to assist the Architect/ Engineer in the performance of the
Architect/Engineer’ s duties and to verify the Prime Contractor’ s record of the number of
workmen employed on the Work, their occupational classification, the time each is
engaged in the Work, the equipment used in the performance of the Work, and for purpose
of verification of Prime Contractor’ s Applications for Payment.
2.3 OWNER’ S RIGHT TO STOP THE WORK
If the Prime Contractor fails to correct any portion of the Work which is not in accordance with
the requirements of the Contract Documents as required by Paragraph 12.2 or refuses or fails
to carry out all or any part of the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents, the Owner,
by written order, may order the Prime Contractor to stop the Work, or any portion of the Work,
until the cause for the order has been eliminated. The right of the Owner however, to stop the
Work shall not create or imply a duty on the part of the Owner to exercise this right for the
benefit of the Prime Contractor or any other person or entity. The rights of the Owner under
this Paragraph 2.3 shall be in addition to, and not in restriction of, the Owner’ s rights under
Paragraph 12.2.
2.4 OWNER’ S RIGHT TO CARRY OUT THE WORK
If the Prime Contractor fails or refuses to carry out the Work or perform any of the terms,
covenants, or obligations of the Contract Documents, and fails or refuses to correct any failure
or refusal with diligence and promptness within fourteen ( 14) days after receipt of written
notice from the Owner, the Owner may correct the Prime Contractor’ s failure or refusal or
cause such failure or refusal to be corrected, without affecting, superseding, or waiving any
other contractual, legal, or equitable remedies the Owner has, including but not limited to the
Owner’ s termination rights under Article 13. In that case, an appropriate Change Order will be

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
issued deducting the Owner's cost of correction, including Architect/Engineer's compensation
for additional services and expenses made necessary by the failure or refusal of the Prime
Contractor from payments then or thereafter due to the Prime Contractor. The cost of correction
is subject to verification (but not approval) by the Architect/Engineer. If payments then or
thereafter due the Prime Contractor are not sufficient to cover the cost of correction, the Prime
Contractor shall pay the difference to the Owner.
2.5 NOTICE TO PROCEED
After final execution of the Contract and receipt and approval of the required performance and
payment bonds and evidence of required insurance, the Owner will issue a written Notice to
Proceed with the Work, including the designated Contract Time within which Substantial
Completion of the Work must be achieved. If the Owner unreasonably delays issuance of a
written Notice to Proceed through no fault of the Prime Contractor, the Prime Contractor shall
be entitled only to an equitable adjustment of the Contract Time, if properly claimed pursuant
to the requirements of Paragraph 4.3; but the Prime Contractor shall not be entitled to any
increase to the Contract Sum whatsoever for this reason.
ARTICLE 3 - THE CONTRACTOR
3.1 DEFINITION OF CONTRACTOR
The Prime Contractor is the person or business entity identified as such in the Building
Construction Services Agreement, and is referred to throughout the Contract Documents as if
singular in number. The term “ Prime Contractor” means the Prime Contractor or the Prime
Contractor’ s authorized employees or representatives.
3.2 REVIEW OF CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND FIELD CONDITIONS BY
CONTRACTOR
a) The Prime Contractor shall carefully check, study, and compare the Contract Documents
with each other and shall at once report to the Architect/ Engineer in writing any
inconsistency, ambiguity, error, omission, conflict, or discrepancy the Prime Contractor
may discover. The Prime Contractor shall also verify all dimensions, field measurements,
and field conditions before laying out the Work. The Prime Contractor will be held
responsible for any subsequent error, omission, conflict, or discrepancy which might have
been avoided by the above-described check, study, comparison, and reporting. In the event
the Prime Contractor continues to work on an item where an inconsistency, ambiguity,
error, omission, conflict, or discrepancy exists without obtaining such clarification or
resolution or commences an item of the Work without giving written notice of an error,
omission, conflict, or discrepancy that might have been avoided by the check, study, and
comparison required above, it shall be deemed that the Prime Contractor bid and intended
to execute the more stringent, higher quality, or state of the art requirement, or accepted
the condition “ as is” in the Contract Documents, without any increase to the Contract Sum
or Contract Time. The Prime Contractor shall also be responsible to correct any failure of
component parts to coordinate or fit properly into final position as a result of Prime
Contractor's failure to give notice of and obtain a clarification or resolution of any error,
omission, conflict, or discrepancy, without any right to any increase to the Contract Sum
or Contract Time.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
b) The Prime Contractor shall perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents
and submittals approved pursuant to Paragraph 3.12.
3.3 SUPERVISION AND CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES
a) The Prime Contractor shall supervise and direct the Work, using the Prime Contractor’ s
best skill and attention. The Prime Contractor shall be solely responsible for and have
control over construction means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures and for
coordinating all portions of the Work, unless the Contract Documents set forth specific
instructions concerning these matters.
b) The Prime Contractor shall be responsible to the Owner for the acts and omissions of the
Prime Contractor’ s employees, Subcontractors, Sub- subcontractors, and their respective
agents and employees, and any other persons performing portions of the Work under a
subcontract with the Prime Contractor, or with any Subcontractor, and all other persons or
entities for which the Prime Contractor is legally responsible. All labor shall be performed
by mechanics that are trained and skilled in their respective trades. Standards of work
required throughout shall be of a quality that will bring only first class results. Mechanics
whose work is unsatisfactory, or who are considered careless, incompetent, unskilled, or
otherwise objectionable shall be dismissed promptly from the Work and immediately
replaced with competent, skilled personnel. Any part of the Work adversely affected by the
acts or omissions of incompetent, unskilled, careless, or objectionable personnel shall be
immediately corrected by the Prime Contractor.
c) The Prime Contractor shall not be relieved of its obligation to perform the Work in
accordance with the Contract Documents either by activities or duties of the
Architect/ Engineer in the Architect/ Engineer’ s administration of the Contract, or by tests,
inspections, or approvals required or performed by persons other than the Prime
Contractor.
d) The Prime Contractor shall be responsible for inspection of portions of Work already
performed under this Contract to determine that such portions are in proper condition to
receive subsequent Work. The Prime Contractor' s responsibility under this paragraph will
not in any way eliminate the Architect/Engineer's responsibility to the Owner under the
Architect/ Engineer/ Owner Agreement.
e) Any Prime Contractor, Subcontractor, Sub- subcontractor, or separate contractor who
commences Work over, in, or under any surface prepared by the Owner or by any other
contractor, subcontractor, sub- subcontractor or any separate contractor, without the Prime
Contractor having given written notice to the Architect/Engineer of the existence of any
faulty surface or condition in the surface that prevents achieving the quality of
workmanship specified by the Contract Documents and without having obtained the prior
approval of the Architect/ Engineer and the Owner to proceed is deemed to have accepted
the surface or condition in the surface as satisfactory at the commencement of such Work.
Any unsatisfactory Work subsequently resulting from such a faulty surface or condition in
the surface that was not pre-approved by the Architect/Engineer or the Owner after notice
as provided above may be rejected and replacement required, without any increase to the
Contract Sum or Contract Time.
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
f) All grades, lines, levels, and benchmarks shall be established and maintained on an ongoing
basis by the Prime Contractor. The Prime Contractor is solely responsible for any errors
made in establishing or maintaining proper grades, lines, levels, or benchmarks. Contractor
shall verify all grades, lines, levels, and dimensions as indicated on Drawings. He shall
report any errors, omissions, conflicts, or inconsistencies to Architect/Engineer before
commencing any Work affected by these conditions. Contractor shall establish and
safeguard benchmarks in at least two widely separated places and, as Work progresses,
establish benchmarks at each level and lay out partitions on rough floor in exact locations
as guides to all trades. The Contractor shall, from the permanent benchmark provided by
the Owner, establish and maintain adequate horizontal and vertical control.
3.4 LABOR AND MATERIALS
a) Except as is otherwise specifically provided in the Contract Documents as being the
responsibility of the Owner, the Prime Contractor shall provide and pay for labor,
materials, equipment, tools, construction equipment and machinery, water, heat, utilities,
transportation, and other facilities and services necessary for proper execution and
completion of the Work, whether temporary or permanent and whether or not incorporated
or to be incorporated in the Work.
b) The Prime Contractor shall enforce strict discipline and good order among the Prime
Contractor’ s employees and all other persons carrying out the Contract. The Prime
Contractor shall not permit employment of unfit persons or persons not skilled in tasks
assigned to them.
c) The Prime Contractor shall give preference, when qualified labor is available to perform
the Work to which the employment relates, to all labor hired for the Project in the following
order:
1) residents of the City of Denton, Texas;
2) residents of the County of Denton, Texas;
3.5 WARRANTY
a) General Warranty. The Contractor warrants to the Owner that all Work shall be
accomplished in a good and workmanlike manner and that all materials and equipment
furnished under the Contract will be of good quality, new ( unless otherwise specified), and
free from faults or defects, and that the Work will otherwise conform to the Contract
Documents. Work not conforming to these requirements, including substitutions not
properly approved and authorized, will be considered defective or nonconforming. The
Contractor’ s warranty excludes any remedy for damage or defect caused by abuse,
modifications not executed by the Contractor, improper or insufficient maintenance,
improper operation, or normal wear and tear under normal usage. If required by the
Architect/Engineer, the Contractor shall furnish satisfactory evidence as to the kind and
quality of materials and equipment. The commencement date, duration, and other
conditions related to the scope of this general warranty are established in Subparagraphs

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
9.9 ( a) and 12.2(b) of these General Conditions. THE GENERAL WARRANTY
PROVIDED IN THIS SUBPARAGRAPH IS IN ADDITION TO AND DOES NOT
LIMIT OR DISCLAIM ANY OTHER WARRANTY OR REMEDY REQUIRED OR
PROVIDED BY LAW OR THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND SUCH WARRANTY
SHALL REQUIRE THE CONTRACTOR TO REPLACE DEFECTIVE MATERIALS
AND RE-EXECUTE DEFECTIVE WORK THAT IS DISCLOSED BY THE OWNER
TO THE CONTRACTOR WITHIN A PERIOD OF TWO ( 2) YEARS AFTER
SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION OF THE ENTIRE WORK; OR, IF A LATENT
DEFECT IS DISCOVERED WITHIN TWO YEARS OF SUBSTATIONAL
COMPLETION OF THE ENTIRE WORK.
b) Special Warranties. The Contractor shall assign to the Owner in writing, as a condition
precedent to final payment, the terms and conditions of all special warranties required
under the Contract Documents.
3.6 TAXES
The Owner qualifies for exemption from state and local sales and use taxes, pursuant to the
provisions of Section 151.309 of the Texas Tax Code, as amended. Therefore, the Owner shall
not be liable for, or pay the Contractor's cost of, such sales and use taxes which would
otherwise be payable in connection with the purchase of tangible personal property furnished
and incorporated into the real property being improved under the Contract Documents or the
purchase of materials, supplies and other tangible personal property, other than machinery or
equipment and its accessories and repair and replacement parts, necessary and essential for
performance of the Contract which is to be completely consumed at the job site. The Contractor
shall issue an exemption certificate in lieu of the tax on such purchases.
3.7 PERMITS, FEES AND NOTICES
a) The Architect/Engineer will apply and arrange for the issuance of the City of Denton
Building Permit. The Prime Contractor and Subcontractors will apply and arrange for the
issuance of all other required permits, and will not be required to pay a fee for any City of
Denton permits required for the Project. The Owner will pay all service extension charges,
including tap fees, assessed by the Water Utilities Department.
b) The Prime Contractor shall comply with and give notices required by laws, ordinances,
rules, regulations, and lawful orders of governmental entities or agencies applying to
performance of the Work.
c) Except as provided in Subparagraph ( d) below, it is not the Prime Contractor’ s
responsibility to ascertain that the Contract Documents are in accordance with applicable
laws, ordinances, construction codes, and rules and regulations. However, if the Prime
Contractor observes that portions of the Contract Documents are at variance with
applicable laws, ordinances, construction codes, rules or regulations, the Prime Contractor
shall promptly notify the Architect/ Engineer and the Owner in writing, and necessary
changes shall be accomplished by appropriate Amendment.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
d) If the Prime Contractor performs Work knowing it to be contrary to laws, ordinances,
construction codes, or rules and regulations without notifying the Architect/Engineer and
the Owner, the Prime Contractor shall assume full responsibility for the Work and shall
bear the attributable costs of the correction of the Work and any other Work in place that
may be adversely affected by the corrective work.
3.8 ALLOWANCES
a) The Prime Contractor shall include in the Contract Sum all allowances stated in the
Contract Documents. Items covered by allowances shall be supplied for the amounts
identified in the Contract and by persons or entities as the Owner may direct, but the Prime
Contractor shall not be required to employ persons or entities against which the Prime
Contractor makes reasonable objection.
b) Unless otherwise provided in the Contract Documents:
1) materials and equipment under an allowance shall be selected promptly by the Owner
to avoid delay in the Work;
2) the amount of each allowance shall cover the cost to the Prime Contractor of materials
and equipment delivered at the site less all exempted taxes and applicable trade
discounts;
3) the amount of each allowance includes the Prime Contractor’ s costs for unloading and
handling at the site, labor, installation costs, overhead, profit, and other expenses
contemplated for stated allowance Work;
4) whenever costs are more than or less than allowances, the Contract Sum shall be
adjusted accordingly by Change Order. The amount of the Change Order shall reflect:
i) the difference between actual costs and the allowances under Clause ( b) ( 2); and
ii) changes in Contractor’ s costs under Clause ( b) ( 3);
5) the Owner retains the right to review and approve Subcontractors selected by the Prime
Contractor to perform work activities covered by allowances.

3.9 SUPERINTENDENT
The Prime Contractor shall employ a competent superintendent and necessary assistants who
shall be in attendance at the Project Site during performance of the Work. The superintendent
shall represent the Prime Contractor, and communications given to the superintendent shall be
as binding as if given to the Prime Contractor. Important communications shall be confirmed
in writing. Other communications shall be similarly confirmed on written request in each case.
The Owner reserves the right to request that the Prime Contractor replace its superintendent at
any time and the Prime Contractor will replace said superintendent at the Owner’s direction.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
3.10 PRIME CONTRACTOR’S CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULES
a) The Prime Contractor shall, immediately after award of the Contract and before submittal
of the first Application for Payment, prepare and submit the construction schedule for the
Architect/ Engineer' s and Owner' s information, review, and approval in accordance with
the following provisions:
1) Unless otherwise approved in writing by the Owner, the construction schedule shall not
exceed the Contract Time limits currently in effect under the Contract Documents and
shall provide for expeditious and practicable execution of the Work.
2) The construction schedule shall include all shop drawing and submittal data
requirements, indicating for each:
i) the latest date to be submitted by the Prime Contractor; and
ii) the latest date for approval by the Architect/ Engineer.
3) The construction schedule shall be in the form of a critical path management schedule,
and shall indicate each critical task (the “ predecessor”) of all the major construction
activities of the Work in a logical and sequential order ( the “ project network”) which
requires completion prior to commencement of the task next following ( the
successor”). Each task shall be identified with:
i) actual work time, exclusive of slack time, for accomplishment;
ii) the latest start date;
iii) the latest finish date;
iv) the amount of float associated with each task;
v) the amount of labor, material, and equipment associated with each task; and
vi) the percentage of completion as of the date of the current schedule.
4) The construction schedule shall be revised and updated monthly to reflect the actual
status of the Work and shall be submitted with each Application for Payment.
5) On or before the first day of each month, following the date of commencement of the
Work as stated in the notice to proceed, the Prime Contractor shall prepare and submit
to the Architect/Engineer and the Owner an up-to-date status report of the progress of
the various construction phases of the Work in the form of an updated construction
schedule. This status report shall consist of a time scale drawing indicating actual
progress of the various phases of the Work and the percentage of completion of the
entire Work. The original construction schedule shall be updated or changed to indicate
any adjustments to the Contract Time granted by the Owner. The updated schedule
must be submitted with the Prime Contractor’ s Application for Payment. No such
application will be certified without a satisfactory update to the construction schedule.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
6) The construction schedule will also be revised to show the effect of change orders and
other events on Contract Time. No request for an increase in Contract Time will be
considered unless it is accompanied by a schedule revision demonstrating the amount
of time related to the cause of the request. If the Contractor’ s status schedules reflect
that the Prime Contractor has fallen behind the pace required to complete the Work
within the Contract Time, through no fault of the Owner, the Prime Contractor shall
prepare a recovery schedule demonstrating how it intends to bring its progress back
within the Contract Time. This recovery schedule shall be in a form acceptable to the
Owner.
7) Costs incurred by the Prime Contractor in preparing and maintaining the required
construction schedule, any updated schedule, and any recovery schedule required by
the Owner will not be paid as an additional or extra cost and shall be included in the
Contract Sum.
8) The Contract Sum is deemed to be based upon a construction schedule requiring the
full Contract Time. NO CLAIM FOR ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION SHALL BE
ALLOWED AS A RESULT OF THE PRIME CONTRACTOR BASING HIS BID ON
AN EARLY COMPLETION SCHEDULE, OR AS A RESU LT OF DELAYS AND
COSTS ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMPLETION LATER THAN THE PLANNED
EARLY COMPLETION DATE.
b) The Prime Contractor shall also prepare and keep current, for the
Architect/Engineer’ s approval, a schedule of submittals which is coordinated with
the Prime Contractor’ s construction schedule and allows the Architect/ Engineer
reasonable time to review submittals.
c) The Prime Contractor shall conform to the most recent schedules approved as to
form by the Architect/ Engineer and the Owner. Any subsequent revisions made by
the Prime Contractor to schedules in effect shall conform to the provisions of
Subparagraph 3.10( a)
d) If the Work falls behind the approved construction schedule, the Prime Contractor
shall take such steps as may be necessary to improve his progress, and the
Architect/ Engineer and the Owner may require him to increase the number of shifts,
overtime operations, days of work, or the amount of construction plant, and to
submit for approval revised schedules in the form required above in order to
demonstrate the manner in which the agreed rate of progress will be regained, all
without additional cost to the Owner.

3.11 DOCUMENTS AND SAMPLES AT THE PROJECT SITE
The Contractor shall maintain at the Project site for the Owner one record copy of the
Drawings, Specifications, addenda, and Amendments in good order and marked currently to
record changes and selections made during construction, and in addition shall maintain at the
Project site approved Shop Drawings, Product Data, Samples, and similar required submittals.
These shall be available to the Architect/ Engineer and shall be delivered to the
Architect/Engineer for submittal to the Owner upon completion of the Work.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
3.12 SHOP DRAWINGS, PRODUCT DATA AND SAMPLES
a) Shop Drawings are drawings, diagrams, schedules, and other data specially prepared for
the Work by the Contractor or a Subcontractor, Sub-subcontractor, materialmen,
manufacturer( s), supplier( s), or distributor( s) to illustrate some portion of the Work.
b) Product Data are illustrations, standard schedules, performance charts, instructions,
brochures, diagrams, and other information furnished by the Contractor to illustrate
materials or equipment for some portion of the Work.
c) Samples are physical examples which illustrate materials, equipment, or workmanship and
establish standards by which the Work will be judged.
d) Shop Drawings, Product Data, Samples, and similar submittals are not Contract
Documents. The purpose of their submittal is to demonstrate for those portions of the Work
for which submittals are required the way the Contractor proposes to conform to the
information given and the design concept expressed in the Contract Documents. Review
by the Architect/ Engineer is subject to the limitations of Paragraph 4.2.
e) The Prime Contractor shall review, approve and submit to the Architect/Engineer Shop
Drawings, Product Data, Samples, and similar submittals required by the Contract
Documents with reasonable promptness and in such sequence as to cause no delay in the
Work or in the activities of the Owner, or of separate contractors. Submittals made by the
Prime Contractor which are not required by the Contract Documents may be returned
without action.
f) The Prime Contractor shall perform no portion of the Work requiring submittal and review
of Shop Drawings, Product Data, Samples, or similar submittals until the respective
submittal has been approved by the Architect/Engineer. Work requiring this submittal and
review shall be in accordance with approved submittals and any identified exceptions noted
by the Architect/Engineer.
g) By approving and submitting Shop Drawings, Product Data, Samples and similar
submittals, the Prime Contractor represents that the Prime Contractor has determined and
verified materials, field measurements, and related field construction criteria, or will do so,
and has checked and coordinated the information contained within submittals with the
requirements of the Work and of the Contract Documents. The Prime Contractor' s attention
is directed to Paragraph 3.2 of these General Conditions and the requirements stated in that
Paragraph.
h) The Prime Contractor shall not be relieved of responsibility for deviations, substitutions,
changes, additions, deletions or omissions from requirements of the Contract Documents
by the Architect/Engineer's approval of Shop Drawings, Product Data, Samples, or similar
submittals unless the Prime Contractor has specifically informed the Architect/ Engineer in
writing of such substitutions, changes, additions, deletions, omissions, or deviations
involved in the submittal at the time of submittal and the Architect/ Engineer, subject to a
formal Change Order signed by the Owner, Architect/Engineer and Prime Contractor, has
given written approval to the specific substitutions, changes, additions, deletions,
omissions, or deviations. The Prime Contractor shall not be relieved of responsibility for
errors or omissions in Shop Drawings, Product Data, Samples, or similar submittals by the
Architect/Engineer's approval thereof. Further, notwithstanding any approval of a
submittal by the Architect/ Engineer, the Prime Contractor shall be responsible for all
associated Project costs, including costs of coordination’ s, modifications, or impacts, direct
or indirect, resulting from any and all substitutions, changes, additions, deletions,

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
omissions, or deviations, whether or not specifically identified by the Prime Contractor to
the Architect/Engineer at the time of the above-mentioned submittals, including additional
consulting fees, if any, in any and all accommodations associated with such substitutions,
changes, additions, deletions, omissions, or deviations to the requirements of the Contract
Documents.
i) The Prime Contractor shall direct specific attention, in writing or on resubmitted Shop
Drawings, Product Data, Samples, or similar submittals, to additional revisions other than
those requested by the Architect/Engineer on previous submittals. In the absence of such
written notice, the Architect/ Engineer’ s approval of a resubmission shall not apply to the
additional revisions not requested.
j) Informational submittals upon which the Architect/ Engineer is not expected to take
responsive action may be so identified in the Contract Documents.
k) When professional certification of performance criteria of materials, systems, or equipment
is required by the Contract Documents, the Architect/Engineer shall be entitled to rely upon
the accuracy and completeness of such calculations and certifications.
3.13 USE OF THE PROJECT SITE
The Prime Contractor shall confine operations at the Project site to areas permitted by law,
ordinances, permits, and the Contract Documents and shall not unreasonably encumber the
Project site with materials or equipment.
3.14 CUTTING AND PATCHING
a) The Prime Contractor shall be responsible for cutting, fitting or patching required to
complete the Work or to make its parts fit together properly.
b) The Prime Contractor shall not damage or endanger a portion of the Work or any fully
or partially completed construction of the Owner or separate contractors by cutting,
patching, or otherwise altering the construction, or by excavating. The Prime Contractor
shall not cut or otherwise alter the construction by the Owner or a separate contractor
except with the written consent of the Owner and of the separate contractor; consent shall
not be unreasonably withheld. The Prime Contractor shall not unreasonably withhold
from the Owner or a separate contractor the Prime Contractor’ s consent to cutting or
otherwise altering the Work.
c) A “Hot Work Permit” must be obtained from the City of Denton’ s Facilities Management
Department, 869 S. Woodrow Lane, Denton, Texas (940 349-7200) for any temporary
operation involving open flames or producing heat and/ or sparks. This includes, but is
not limited to: Brazing, Cutting, Grinding, Soldering, Torch Applied Roofing and
Welding.
3.15 CLEANING UP
a) The Prime Contractor shall keep the Project site and surrounding area free from
accumulation of waste materials or rubbish caused by operations under the Contract.
Upon the completion of the Work the Prime Contractor shall remove from and about the
Project site all waste materials, and rubbish, and all of the Prime Contractor’ s tools,
construction equipment, machinery, and surplus materials.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
b) If the Prime Contractor fails to clean up as provided in the Contract Documents, the
Owner may, at Owner’ s option, clean up the Project site, and the Owner’ s cost of cleaning
up shall be charged to the Contractor.
3.16 ACCESS TO WORK
The Prime Contractor shall provide the Owner and the Architect/ Engineer access to the Work
in preparation and progress wherever located during the course of construction.
3.17 TESTS AND INSPECTIONS
a) Tests, inspections, and approvals of portions of the Work required by the Contract
Documents or by laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, or orders of governmental entities or
agencies having jurisdiction over the Work shall be made at appropriate times. Unless
otherwise provided, the Prime Contractor shall make arrangements for such tests,
inspections, and approvals with an independent testing laboratory or entity acceptable to
the Owner or with the appropriate governmental entity or agency, and the Prime Contractor
shall bear all related costs of tests, inspections, and approvals. The Prime Contractor shall
give the Architect/ Engineer timely notice of when and where tests and inspections are to
be made so the Architect/Engineer may observe such procedures. The Owner shall bear
costs of tests, inspections, or approvals which become requirements after bids or proposals
are received.
b) If the Architect/Engineer, the Owner or other public authorities having jurisdiction over
the Work determine that portions of the Work require additional testing, inspection or
approval not included under Subparagraph 3.17(a), the Architect/Engineer will, upon
written authorization from the Owner, instruct the Prime Contractor to make arrangements
for such additional testing, inspection or approval by an entity acceptable to the Owner,
and the Prime Contractor shall give timely notice to the Architect/ Engineer of when and
where tests and inspections are to be made so that the Architect/Engineer may observe such
procedures. The Owner shall bear such costs except as provided in Subparagraph 3.17( c).
c) If procedures for testing, inspection, or approval under Subparagraphs 3.17( a) and 3.17(b)
reveal deficiencies or nonconformities in the Work, the Prime Contractor shall bear all
costs made necessary to correct the deficiencies or nonconformities, including those of
repeated procedures and compensation for the Architect/Engineer’ s services and expenses,
if any. The Prime Contractor shall bear the costs of any subsequent testing, inspection, or
approval of the corrected Work.
d) Required certificates of testing, inspection or approval shall, unless otherwise required by
the Contract Documents, be secured by the Prime Contractor and promptly delivered to the
Architect/Engineer.
e) If the Architect/Engineer is to observe tests, inspections or approvals required by the
Contract Documents, the Architect/ Engineer will do so promptly and, where practicable,
at the normal place of testing or inspection.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
f) Tests or inspections conducted pursuant to the Contract Documents shall be made promptly
to avoid unreasonable delay in the Work.
3.18 ROYALTIES AND PATENTS
The Contractor shall pay all royalties and license fees. CONTRACTOR SHALL
COMPLETELY DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD OWNER AND
ARCHITECT/ENGINEER HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL LIABILITIES, SUITS
OR CLAIMS FOR INFRINGEMENT OF PATENT RIGHTS, REGARDLESS OF
WHETHER OR NOT THE OWNER OR THE ARCHITECT/ENGINEER SPECIFIED A
PARTICULAR DESIGN, PROCESS OR PRODUCT IN THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
THAT MAY BE THE SUBJECT OF A PATENT INFRINGEMENT OR OTHERWISE
ACTIVELY INDUCED OR CONTRIBUTED TO THE PATENT INFRINGEMENT. In the
event the Prime Contractor has reason to believe that a particular design, process or product
specified infringes a patent, the Prime Contractor shall immediately notify the Owner and
the Architect/Engineer of same.
3.19 INDEMNIFICATION
a) THE PRIME CONTRACTOR AGREES TO DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD THE
OWNER, ITS OFFICERS, AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES, AND THE
ARCHITECT/ENGINEER, HARMLESS AGAINST ANY AND ALL CLAIMS,
LIABILITIES, LAWSUITS, JUDGMENTS, FINES, PENALTIES, COSTS AND
EXPENSES FOR PERSONAL INJURY ( INCLUDING DEATH), PROPERTY
DAMAGE OR OTHER HARM OR VIOLATIONS FOR WHICH RECOVERY OF
DAMAGES, FINES, OR PENALTIES IS SOUGHT, SUFFERED BY ANY PERSON OR
PERSONS, THAT MAY ARISE OUT OF OR BE OCCASIONED BY CONTRACTOR' S
BREACH OF ANY OF THE TERMS OR PROVISIONS OF THIS CONTRACT,
VIOLATIONS OF LAW, OR BY ANY NEGLIGENT, GROSSLY NEGLIGENT,
INTENTIONAL, OR STRICTLY LIABLE ACT OR OMISSION OF THE PRIME
CONTRACTOR, ITS OFFICERS, AGENTS, EMPLOYEES, SUBCONTRACTORS, OR
SUB-SUBCONTRACTORS AND THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS, AGENTS, OR
REPRESENTATIVES, OR ANY OTHER PERSONS OR ENTITIES FOR WHICH THE
PRIME CONTRACTOR IS LEGALLY RESPONSIBLE IN THE PERFORMANCE OF
THIS CONTRACT; EXCEPT THAT THE INDEMNITY PROVIDED FOR IN THIS
PARAGRAPH SHALL NOT APPLY TO ANY LIABILITY RESULTING FROM THE
SOLE NEGLIGENCE OR FAULT OF THE OWNER, ITS OFFICERS, AGENTS,
EMPLOYEES OR SEPARATE CONTRACTORS, OR OF THE
ARCHITECT/ ENGINEER, AND IN THE EVENT OF JOINT AND CONCURRENT
NEGLIGENCE OR FAULT OF THE CONTRACTOR, THE OWNER, AND THE
ARCHITECT/ ENGINEER, RESPONSIBILITY AND INDEMNITY, IF ANY, SHALL
BE APPORTIONED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF
TEXAS, WITHOUT, HOWEVER, WAIVING ANY GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY
AVAILABLE TO THE OWNER UNDER TEXAS LAW, AND WITHOUT WAIVING
ANY DEFENSES OF THE PARTIES UNDER TEXAS LAW. THE PROVISIONS OF
THIS PARAGRAPH ARE SOLELY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PARTIES HERETO
AND ARE NOT INTENDED TO CREATE OR GRANT ANY RIGHTS,
CONTRACTUAL OR OTHERWISE, TO ANY OTHER THIRD PERSON OR ENTITY.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
b) In claims against any person or entity indemnified under this Paragraph 3.19 by an
employee of the Prime Contractor, a Subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed
by them or anyone for whose acts they may be liable, the indemnification obligation under
this Paragraph 3.19 shall not be limited by a limitation on amount or type of damages,
compensation or benefits payable by or for the Prime Contractor or any Subcontractor,
under workers compensation acts, disability benefit acts or other employee benefit acts.
c) Indemnification under this Paragraph 3.19 shall include, but is not limited to, liability
which could result to or be created for the Owner, its officers, agents, or employees, or the
Architect/Engineer pursuant to State or Federal laws or regulations relating to pollution of
the environment and State or Federal laws or regulations relating to the occupational safety

and health of workers. The Prime Contractor specifically agrees to comply with the above-
mentioned laws and regulations in the performance of the Work by the Prime Contractor

and that the obligations of the Owner, its officers, agents, and employees, and the
Architect/ Engineer under the above- mentioned laws and regulations are secondary to those
of the Prime Contractor.
ARTICLE 4 - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
4.1 THE DESIGN PROFESSIONAL (ARCHITECT/ENGINEER)
a) The design professional is the person lawfully licensed to practice architecture or
engineering or a firm or other business entity lawfully practicing architecture/ engineering
identified as such in the formal Building Construction Services Agreement and is referred
to throughout the Contract Documents as if singular in number. The term
Architect/Engineer” means the Architect/Engineer or the Architect/Engineer’ s authorized
representative. The Owner may, at its option, designate a qualified Owner representative
to serve as the Architect/Engineer on the Project instead of an outside firm or person. In
such event, the references in these General Conditions that refer to the Architect/ Engineer

shall apply to the Owner-designated Architect/Engineer representative and the Owner-
designated Architect/ Engineer representative shall be accorded that same status by the

Prime Contractor.
b) In the event the Architect/Engineer is an outside person or firm and the
Architect/ Engineer' s employment is terminated, the Owner may, at its option, contract with
a new outside Architect/Engineer to replace the former, or may designate a qualified Owner
representative to serve as the Architect/ Engineer. The replacement Architect/ Engineer,
whether an Owner representative, an independent Architect/Engineer or any other qualified
person or entity, shall be regarded as the Architect/ Engineer for all purposes under the
Contract Documents and shall be accorded that same status by the Prime Contractor. Any
dispute in connection with such appointment shall be reviewed and settled by the Owner,
whose decision shall be final and binding.
c) Owner reserves the right to appoint a representative empowered to act forthe Owner during
the Construction Phase and to supersede the Architect/ Engineer’ s Const ruction Phase
responsibility. Similarly, from time to time the Owner may expand or reduce the Owner’s
delegation of powers to the Architect/ Engineer, with the Owner notifying the Prime

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
Contractor of any such changes. The Architect/Engineer shall not be construed as a third
party beneficiary to the Contract and can in no way object to any expansion or reduction
of powers as set forth in this Subparagraph ( c). In no event, however, shall the Owner have
control over charge of, or be responsible for, construction means, methods, techniques,
sequences, or procedures, or for safety precautions or programs in connection with the
Work since these are solely the Contractor’ s responsibility. The Owner will not be
responsible for the Prime Contractor’ s failure to carry out the Work in accordance with the
Contract Documents. The Owner will not have control over or charge of and will not be
responsible for acts or omissions of Prime Contractor, Subcontractors, or their agents or
employees, or of any other persons performing portions of the Work.
4.2 ARCHITECT/ENGINEER’S RESPONSIBILITIES DURING CONSTRUCTION
a) The Architect/Engineer will administer the Contract as described in the Contract
Documents and in accordance with the terms of the Architect/ Engineer' s agreement with
the Owner, where applicable, subject to the direction and approval of the Owner. If
requested by the Prime Contractor, the provisions of the Owner/ Architect/ Engineer
Agreement will be made available to the Prime Contractor.
b) The Architect/Engineer shall provide, during performance of the Work, adequate and
competent periodic on- site construction observation, periodically visiting the Project site
to the extent necessary to personally familiarize themselves with the progress and quality
of the Work, and to determine if the Work is proceeding in accordance with the Contract
Documents. The Architect/Engineer shall not, however, be required to make continuous
on-site inspections to check the Work. Field reports of each visit shall be prepared by the
Architect/Engineer and submitted to the Owner. The Architect/Engineer shall employ all
reasonable measures to safeguard the Owner against defects and nonconformities in the
Work. The Architect/Engineer shall not be responsible for the construction means,
methods, techniques, sequences of procedures, nor for the safety precautions and programs
employed in connection with the Work. The Architect/Engineer will, however,
immediately inform the Owner whenever defects or nonconformities in the Work are
observed, or when any observed actions or omissions are undertaken by the Prime
Contractor or any Subcontractor which are not in the best interests of the Owner or the
Project.
c) The Architect/Engineer and the Owner will not have control over or charge of and will not
be responsible for construction means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures, or
for safety precautions and programs in connection with the Work, since these are solely
the Prime Contractor’ s responsibility as provided in Paragraph 4.3. The Architect/ Engineer
and the Owner will not be responsible for the Prime Contractor’ s failure to carry out the
Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. The Architect/ Engineer and the Owner
will not have control over or charge of and will not be responsible for acts or omissions of
the Prime Contractor, Subcontractors, Sub- subcontractors, or their respective agents or
employees, or of any other persons performing portions of the Work for which the Prime
Contractor is responsible.
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
d) Except as otherwise provided in the Contract Documents or when direct communications
have been specially authorized, the Owner and Prime Contractor shall endeavor to
communicate through the Architect/ Engineer. Communications by and with the
Architect/Engineer’ s consultants shall be through the Architect/Engineer. Communications
by and with Subcontractors and material suppliers shall be through the Prime Contractor.
Communications by and with separate contractors will be through the Owner. The Prime
Contractor shall provide written confirmation of communications made directly with the
Owner and provide copies of such confirmation to the Architect/Engineer.
e) Based on the Architect/ Engineer’ s observations and evaluations of the Prime Contractor’ s
Applications for Payment, the Architect/Engineer will review and certify the amounts due
the Prime Contractor and will issue Certificates for Payment in such amounts.
f) The Architect/Engineer and the Owner will each have authority to reject Work which does
not conform to the Contract Documents. Whenever the Architect/ Engineer considers it
necessary or advisable for implementation of the intent of the Contract Documents, the
Architect/ Engineer will have authority to require additional inspection or testing of the
Work in accordance with Subparagraphs 3.17(b) and 3.17(c), whether or not such Work is
fabricated, installed or completed. However, neither this authority of the
Architect/Engineer nor a decision made in good faith either to exercise or not to exercise
such authority shall give rise to any duty or responsibility of the Architect/ Engineer to the
Prime Contractor, Subcontractors, material and equipment suppliers, their agents or
employees, or other persons performing portions of the Work.
g) The Architect/Engineer will review and approve or take other appropriate action upon the
Prime Contractor’ s submittals such as Shop Drawings, Product Data, and Samples, but
only for the limited purpose of checking for conformance with information given and the
design concept expressed in the Contract Documents. The Architect/ Engineer’ s action will
be taken with such reasonable promptness as to not delay the Work or the activities of the
Owner, Contractor, or separate contractors. Review of such submittals is not conducted for
the purpose of determining the accuracy and completeness of other details such as
dimensions and quantities, or for substantiating instructions for installation or performance
of equipment or systems, all of which remain the responsibility of the Prime Contractor as
required by the Contract Documents. The Architect/ Engineer’ s review of the Prime
Contractor’ s submittals shall not relieve the Prime Contractor of any obligations under
Paragraphs 3.3, 3.5, and 3.12. The Architect/ Engineer’ s review shall not constitute
approval of safety precautions or, unless otherwise specifically stated in writing by the
Architect/ Engineer, of any construction means, methods, techniques, sequences, or
procedures. The Architect/Engineer’ s approval of a specific item shall not indicate
approval of an assembly of which the item is a component.
h) The Architect/Engineer will prepare Change Orders and may authorize minor changes in
the Work as provided in Paragraph 7.3.
i) The Architect/Engineer will conduct inspections to determine the date or dates of
Substantial Completion and the date of final completion, will receive and forward to the
Owner for the Owner’s review and records written warranties and related documents
required by the Contract and assembled by the Prime Contractor, and will issue a final
Certificate for Payment upon compliance with the requirements of the Contract
Documents.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
j) If the Owner and Architect/Engineer agree, the Architect/Engineer will provide one or
more Project representatives to assist in carrying out the Architect/Engineer’ s
responsibilities at the site. The duties, responsibilities, and limitations of authority of such
Project representatives shall be as set forth in an exhibit to be incorporated into the Contract
Documents.
k) The Architect/Engineer will interpret and make recommendations to the Owner concerning
performance under and requirements of the Contract Documents upon written request of
either the Owner or Contractor. The Architect/Engineer’ s response to such requests will be
made with reasonable promptness and within any time limits agreed upon. The
Architect/Engineer shall secure the Owner’s written approval before issuing instructions,
interpretations, or judgments to the Prime Contractor which change the scope of the Work
or which modify or change the terms and conditions of any of the Contract Documents.
l) Interpretations and decisions of the Architect/ Engineer will be consistent with the intent of
and reasonably inferable from the Contract Documents and will be in writing or in the form
of Drawings. When making such interpretations and decisions, the Architect/ Engineer will
endeavor to secure faithful performance by the Prime Contractor.
m) The Architect/ Engineer’ s decisions on matters relating to aesthetic effect will be final if
consistent with the intent expressed in the Contract Documents; provided that the
Architect/ Engineer has the prior written approval of the Owner.
4.3 CLAIMS AND DISPUTES
a) Definition; General Notice of Claim Procedure. As used in these General Conditions, a
Claim” means a demand or assertion by one of the parties to the Contract seeking an
adjustment of the terms of the Contract Documents, of the Contract Sum, of the Contract
Time, or some other relief in respect to the terms of the Contract Documents. The term also
includes all other disputes between the Owner and the Contractor arising out of or relating
to the Project or the Contract Documents, including but not limited to claims that work was
outside the scope of the Contract Documents. The responsibility to substantiate the Claim
and the burden of demonstrating compliance with this provision shall rest with the party
making the Claim. Except where otherwise provided in the Contract Documents, a Claim
by the Prime Contractor, whether for additional compensation, additional time, or other
relief, including but not limited to claims arising from concealed conditions, WITHOUT
EXCEPTION, MUST BE MADE BY WRITTEN NOTICE TO THE
ARCHITECT/ ENGINEER AND TO THE OWNER WITHIN FOURTEEN ( 14) DAYS
IMMEDIATELY AFTER OCCURRENCE OF THE EVENT OR EVENTS GIVING
RISE TO THE PARTICULAR CLAIM. Every Claim of the Prime Contractor, whether for
additional compensation, additional time, or other relief, including but not limited to claims
arising from concealed conditions, shall be signed and sworn to by an authorized corporate
officer (if not a corporation, then an official of the company authorized to bind the Prime
Contractor by his signature) of the Prime Contractor, verifying the truth and accuracy of
the Claim. THE PRIME CONTRACTOR SHALL BE CONCLUSIVELY DEEMED TO
HAVE WAIVED ANY CLAIM NOT MADE STRICTLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE PROCEDURES AND TIME LIMITS SET OUT IN THIS PARAGRAPH.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
b) Referral to the Architect/Engineer. Claims, disputes, and other matters in question between
the Prime Contractor and the Owner relating to the progress or execution of the Work or
the interpretation of the Contract Documents shall be referred to the Architect/ Engineer for
recommendation to the Owner, which recommendation the Architect/Engineer will furnish
in writing within a reasonable time, provided proper and adequate substantiation has been
received. Failure of the Prime Contractor to submit the Claim to the Architect/Engineer for
rendering of a recommendation to the Owner shall constitute a waiver of the Claim.
c) Continuing Contract Performance. Pending final resolution of a claim the Prime Contractor
shall proceed diligently with performance of the Work and the Owner shall continue to
make payments in accordance with the Contract Documents.
d) Claims for Concealed or Unknown Conditions. No adjustment in the Contract Sum or Time
associated with concealed or unknown conditions will normally be considered or allowed;
provided, however, that the Contract Sum or Time may be adjusted by the Owner in such
circumstances only if:
1) a concealed subsurface condition is encountered in the course of performance of the
Work;
2) a concealed or unknown condition in an existing structure is at variance with conditions
indicated by the Contract Documents; or
3) an unknown physical condition is encountered below the surface of the ground or in an
existing structure which is of an unusual nature and materially different from those
ordinarily encountered and generally recognized as inherent in the character of the
Work; and
4) a notice of claim with proper and adequate substantiation is presented pursuant to
Subparagraph 4.3(a) of these General Conditions; and
5) the Owner and the Architect/Engineer determine that:
i) prior to submitting its bid for the Work, the Contractor used reasonable diligence to
fully inspect the portion of the Project site where the condition was discovered; and
ii) the work caused or required by the concealed or unknown condition at issue can be
considered extra work to the extent that additional new Drawings must be prepared and
issued and new construction beyond the scope of the Contract Documents is required.
e) Disclaimer of Warranties as to Reports, Drawings, and Specifications. PROJECT SITE
INFORMATION AND REPORTS ( INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO SOILS
TESTING REPORTS, GEOTECHNICAL REPORTS, OR ENVIRONMENTAL SITE
ASSESSMENTS) PROVIDED BY THE OWNER AND THE ARCHITECT/ENGINEER
IN THE PROJECT MANUAL OR BY OTHER MEANS SHALL BE UTILIZED BY THE
PRIME CONTRACTOR AT THE PRIME CONTRACTOR’S OWN RISK. THE
OWNER AND THE ARCHITECT/ ENGINEER DO NOT GUARANTEE OR
WARRANT ANY INFORMATION SHOWN IN THE PROJECT SITE INFORMATION
AND REPORTS.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
f) Claims for Additional Cost. If the Prime Contractor wishes to make a claim for an increase
in the Contract Sum, written notice as provided in this Paragraph 4.3 shall be given before
proceeding to execute the Work. Prior notice is not required for claims relating to an
emergency endangering life or property arising under Paragraph 10.3. In addition, the
Prime Contractor' s request for an increase in the Contract Sum for any reason ( other than
work performed under emergency conditions) shall be made far enough in advance of
required work to allow the Owner and the Architect/ Engineer a sufficient amount of time,
without adversely affecting the construction schedule, to review the request, prepare and
distribute such additional documents as may be necessary to obtain suitable estimates or
proposals and to negotiate, execute and distribute a Change Order for the required work if
the Prime Contractor believes that additional cost is involved for reasons including but not
limited to:
1) a written interpretation from the Architect/Engineer;
2) a written order for a minor change in the Work issued by the Architect/Engineer;
3) failure of payment by the Owner;
4) termination of the Contract by the Owner;
5) the Owner’s temporary suspension of all or any portion of the Work where the Prime
Contractor was not at fault; or
6) other reasonable grounds.
g) Injury or Damage to Person or Property. If the Prime Contractor suffers injury or damages
to person or property because of an act or omission of the Owner, or of any of the Owner's
officers, employees or agents, written, sworn- to notice of any claim for damages or injury
shall be given as provided in Subparagraph 4.3(a). The notice shall provide sufficient detail
to enable the Architect/ Engineer and the Owner to investigate the matter.
h) Subcontractor Pass- Through Claims. In the event that any Subcontractor of the Prime
Contractor asserts a claim to the Prime Contractor, that the Prime Contractor seeks to pass
through to the Owner under the Contract Documents, any entitlement of the Prime
Contractor to submit and assert the claim against the Owner shall be subject to:
1) the requirements of Paragraph 4.3 of these General Conditions; and
2) the following additional three requirements listed below, all three of which additional
requirements shall be conditions precedent to the entitlement of the Prime Contractor
to seek and assert such claim against the Owner:
ii) The Prime Contractor shall either (A) have direct legal liability as a matter of
contract, common law, or statutory law to the Subcontractor for the claim that the
Subcontractor is asserting or (B) the Prime Contractor shall have entered into a written
liquidating agreement with the Subcontractor, under which agreement the Prime

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547

Contractor has agreed to be legally responsible to the Subcontractor for pursuing the
assertion of such claim against the Owner under the Contract and for paying to the
Subcontractor any amount that may be recovered, less Prime Contractor’ s included
markup (subject to the limits in the Contract Documents for any markup). The liability
or responsibilities shall be identified in writing by the Prime Contractor to the Owner
at the time such claim is submitted to Owner, and a copy of any liquidating agreement
shall be included by the Prime Contractor in the claim submittal materials.
ii) The Prime Contractor shall have reviewed the claim of the Subcontractor prior to
its submittal to Owner and shall have independently evaluated such claim in good faith
to determine the extent to which the claim is believed in good faith to be valid. The
Prime Contractor shall also certify, in writing and under oath to the Owner, at the time
of the submittal of such claim, that the Prime Contractor has made a review, evaluation,
and determination that the claim is made in good faith and is believed by the Contractor
to be valid.
iii) The Subcontractor making the claim to the Prime Contractor shall certify in writing
and under oath that it has compiled, reviewed and evaluated the merits of such claim
and that the claim is believed in good faith by the Subcontractor to be valid. A copy of
the certification by the Subcontractor shall be included by Prime Contractor in the claim
submittal materials made by Contractor to the Owner...
3) Any failure of the Prime Contractor to comply with any of the foregoing requirements
and conditions precedent with regard to any such claim shall constitute a waiver of any
entitlement to submit or pursue such claim against Owner.
4) Receipt and review of a claim by the Owner under this Subparagraph shall not be
construed as a waiver of any defenses to the claim available to the Owner under the
Contract Documents or by applicable law.
i) Owner’ s Right to Order Acceleration and to Deny Claimed and Appropriate Time
Extensions, in Whole or in Part. The Prime Contractor acknowledges and agrees that
Substantial Completion of the Work by or before the Scheduled Completion Date is of
substantial importance to Owner. The following provisions, therefore, will apply:
1) If the Prime Contractor falls behind the approved construction schedule for
whatever reason, the Owner shall have the right, in the Owner’ s sole discretion, to
order the Prime Contractor to develop a recovery schedule as described in
Paragraph 3.10 or to accelerate its progress in such a manner as to achieve
Substantial Completion on or before the Contract Time completion date or such
other date as the Owner may reasonably direct and, upon receipt, the Prime
Contractor shall take all action necessary to comply with the order. In such event,
any possible right, if any, of the Prime Contractor to additional compensation for
any acceleration shall be subject to the terms of this Subparagraph (i).

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547

2) In the event that the Prime Contractor is otherwise entitled to an extension of
Contract Time and has properly initiated a Claim for a time extension in accordance
with Subparagraph 4.3(a) above, the Owner shall have the right, in the Owner’ s
sole discretion, to deny all, or any part, of the Claim for extension of Contract Time
by giving written notice to the Prime Contractor provided within fourteen ( 14) days
after receipt of the Prime Contractor's Claim. If the Owner denies the Prime
Contractor' s claim for an extension of Contract Time under this Clause ( i)(2), either
in whole or in part, the Prime Contractor shall proceed to prosecute the Work in
such a manner as to achieve Substantial Completion on or before the then existing
Scheduled Completion Date.
3) If the Prime Contractor would have been entitled to a time extension for a reason
specifically allowed under the Contract Documents, for an amount of time that
would have justified approval by the Owner if not for the need and right to
accelerate, the Prime Contractor may initiate a Claim for acceleration costs
pursuant to Subparagraph 4.3(a). Any resulting Claim for acceleration costs
properly initiated by the Prime Contractor under Subparagraph 4.3(a) above shall
be limited to those reasonable and documented direct costs of labor, materials,
equipment, and supervision solely and directly attributable to the actual
acceleration activity necessary to bring the Work back within the then existing
approved construction schedule. These direct costs include the premium portion of
overtime pay, additional crew, shift, or equipment costs if requested in advance by
the Contractor and approved in writing by the Owner. A percentage markup for the
prorated cost of premium on the existing performance and payment bonds and
required insurance; provided however, not to exceed five ( 5%) per cent, will be
allowed on the claimed acceleration costs. NO OTHER MARKUP FOR PROFIT,
OVERHEAD ( INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO HOME OFFICE
OVERHEAD) OR ANY OTHER COSTS WILL BE ALLOWED ON ANY
ACCELERATION CLAIM. The Owner shall not be liable for any costs related to
an acceleration claim other than those described in this Clause (i) (3).

i) Waiver of Claims; Final Payment. The making of final payment shall constitute a waiver
of claims by the Owner except those arising from:
1) claims, security interests, purported liens, or other attempted encumbrances arising out
of the Contract and remaining unsettled;
2) defective or nonconforming Work appearing after Substantial Completion;
3) latent defects, as defined in Subparagraph 12.2(d), appearing after Final Completion;
or
4) the terms of general and special warranties required by the Contract Documents or
allowed or implied by law.
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
k) THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NOT BE ENTITLED TO RECOVER ATTORNEY’S
FEES AS A PART OF ANY CLAIM MADE UNDER THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
OR IN ANY SUBSEQUENT LAWSUIT OR ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION
PROCEEDING.
l) No Waiver of Governmental Immunity. NOTHING IN THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
SHALL BE CONSTRUED TO WAIVE THE OWNER’ S GOVERNMENTAL
IMMUNITY FROM LAWSUIT, WHICH IMMUNITY IS EXPRESSLY RETAINED TO
THE EXTENT IT IS NOT CLEARLY AND UNAMBIGUOUSLY WAIVED BY
APPLICABLE STATE LAW.
ARTICLE 5 - SUBCONTRACTORS
5.1 DEFINITIONS OF SUBCONTRACTOR
a) A Subcontractor is person or entity who has a direct Contract with the Prime Contractor to
perform a portion of the Work at the Project site or to supply materials or equipment to the
Prime Contractor by purchase or lease for use in performance of or incorporation into the
Work. The term “ Subcontractor” is referred to throughout the Contract Documents as if
singular in number and means a Subcontractor or an authorized representative of the
Subcontractor. The term “ Subcontractor” does not include a separate contractor or
subcontractors of a separate contractor.
b) A Sub-subcontractor is a person or entity who has a direct or indirect Contract with a
Subcontractor to perform a portion of the Work at the Project site or to supply materials or
equipment to the Subcontractor or another Sub-subcontractor by purchase or lease for use
in performance of or incorporation into the Work. The term “ Sub- subcontractor” is referred

to throughout the Contract Documents as if singular in number and means a Sub-
subcontractor or an authorized representative of the Sub- subcontractor.

5.2 AWARD OF SUBCONTRACTS AND OTHER CONTRACTS FOR PORTIONS OF
THE WORK
a) Immediately after the award of the Contract by the Owner, and before the Building
Construction Services Agreement is signed by the Prime Contractor and the Owner, the
Prime Contractor shall furnish to the Architect/ Engineer in writing, for acceptance by the
Owner and the Architect/Engineer, a list of the names, addresses, telephone numbers,
M/WBE certification numbers ( where applicable), and type of work of the Subcontractors
including those who are to furnish materials or equipment fabricated to a special design),
proposed for the principal portions of the Work, including furnishings when made a part
of the Contract. The Prime Contractor shall immediately notify the Owner in writing of
any changes in the list as they occur. The Architect/ Engineer will promptly reply to the
Contractor in writing stating whether or not the Owner or the Architect/Engineer, after due
investigation, has reasonable objection to any such proposed person or entity. Failure of
the Owner or Architect/Engineer to reply promptly shall constitute notice of no reasonable
objection.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
c) The Architect/Engineer will, on request, furnish to a Subcontractor, if practicable,
information regarding percentages of completion or amounts applied for by the Prime
Contractor and action taken thereon by the Architect/ Engineer and the Owner on account
of portions of the Work done by such Subcontractor.
d) Neither the Owner nor the Architect/ Engineer shall have an obligation to pay or to see to
the payment of money to a Subcontractor except as may otherwise be required by law. That
obligation belongs to the Prime Contractor or, in the event of the Prime Contractor’ s failure
to pay a Subcontractor, to the Surety on the Payment Bond as required under Paragraph
11.3.
e) Payment to material suppliers shall be treated in a manner similar to that provided in
Subparagraphs 9.6(b), (c), and (d).
f) A Certificate for Payment, a progress payment, or partial or entire use or occupancy of the
Project by the Owner shall not constitute acceptance of Work not performed in accordance
with the Contract Documents.
9.7 SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION
a) The Date of Substantial Completion of the Work, or designated portion of the Work, is the date
certified by the Architect/Engineer when construction is sufficiently completed in accordance with
the City Of Denton General Conditions For Building Construction.
a) the Contract Documents such that the Owner may beneficially occupy and use the Work,
or designated portions of the Work, for the purposes for which it is intended and only trivial
and insignificant items remain which do not affect the Work as a whole.
b) When the Prime Contractor considers that the Work, or the portion of the Work which the
Owner agrees to accept separately, is Substantially Complete, the Prime Contractor shall
prepare and submit to the Architect/Engineer a comprehensive list of remaining items to
be completed or corrected. The Prime Contractor shall proceed promptly to complete and
correct items on the list (hereinafter called the “ punch list”). Failure to include an item on
the punch list does not alter the responsibility of the Prime Contractor to complete all Work
in accordance with the Contract Documents. Upon receipt of the punch list, the
Architect/ Engineer will make an inspection to determine whether the Work, or designated
portion of the Work, is Substantially Complete. If the Architect/Engineer’ s inspection
discloses any item, whether or not included on the punch list, which is not in accordance
with the requirements of the Contract Documents and which renders the Work inspected
not Substantially Complete the Contractor shall, before issuance of the Certificate of
Substantial Completion, complete or correct the item upon notification by the
Architect/ Engineer. The Prime Contractor shall then submit a request for another
inspection by the Architect/Engineer to determine Substantial Completion. When the Work
or designated portion of the Work is Substantially Complete, the Architect/ Engineer will
prepare a Certificate of Substantial Completion which shall establish the date of Substantial
Completion, shall establish responsibilities of the Owner and the Prime Contractor for
security, maintenance, heat, utilities, damage to the Work and insurance, and shall fix the
time within which the Prime Contractor shall finish all items on the punch list
accompanying the Certificate.
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
c) The Certificate of Substantial Completion shall be submitted to the Owner and the Prime
Contractor for their written acceptance of responsibilities assigned to them in the
Certificate.
d) Upon Substantial Completion of the Work or designated portion thereof and upon
application by the Prime Contractor and certification by the Architect/Engineer, the Owner
shall make payment, reflecting adjustment in retainage, if any, for the Work, or portion of
the Work, as provided in the Contract Documents.
9.8 PARTIAL OCCUPANCY OR USE
a) The Owner may occupy or use any completed or partially completed portion of the Work
at any stage when such portion is designated by separate Supplemental Agreement with
the Prime Contractor, provided such occupancy or use is consented to by the insurer as
required under Subparagraph 11.2(e) and authorized by public authorities having
jurisdiction over the Work. Such partial occupancy or use may commence whether or not
the portion is Substantially Complete, provided the Owner and Prime Contractor have
accepted in writing the responsibilities assigned to each of them for payments, retainage if
any, security, maintenance, heat, utilities, damage to the Work and insurance, and have
agreed in writing concerning the period for correction of the Work and commencement of
warranties required by the Contract Documents. When the Prime Contractor considers a
portion Substantially Complete, the Prime Contractor shall prepare and submit a list to the
Architect/ Engineer as provided under Subparagraph 9.7(b). Consent of the Prime
Contractor to partial occupancy or use shall not be unreasonably withheld. The stage of the
progress of the Work shall be determined by written agreement between the Owner and
Prime Contractor or, if no agreement is reached, by decision of the Architect/Engineer.
b) Immediately prior to such partial occupancy or use, the Owner, Prime Contractor, and
Architect/ Engineer shall jointly inspect the area to be occupied or portion of the Work to
be used in order to determine and record the condition of the Work.
c) Unless otherwise agreed upon, partial occupancy or use of a portion or portions of the Work
shall not constitute acceptance of Work not complying with the requirements of the
Contract Documents.
9.9 FINAL COMPLETION AND FINAL PAYMENT
a) Upon receipt of written notice that the Work is ready for final inspection and acceptance
and upon receipt of a final Application for Payment, the Architect/ Engineer, accompanied
by the Owner’s representative, will promptly make final inspection and, when the
Architect/ Engineer finds the Work acceptable under the Contract Documents and the
Contract Documents fully performed, the Architect/Engineer will promptly issue a final
Certificate for Payment stating that to the best of the Architect/ Engineer’ s knowledge,
information and belief, and on the basis of the Architect/Engineer’ s observations and
inspections, the Work has been completed in accordance with terms and conditions of the
Contract Documents and that the entire balance found to be due the Prime Contractor and
noted in said final Certificate is due and payable. The Architect/ Engineer’ s final Certificate

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
for Payment will constitute a further representation that conditions listed in Subparagraph
9.9(b) as a condition precedent to the Prime Contractor’ s being entitled to final payment
have been fulfilled. Owner will normally make final payment within thirty ( 30) days after
Owner's receipt and approval of the final Certificate for Payment. Warranties required by
the Contract Documents shall commence on the date of Substantial Completion of the
Work, unless otherwise provided by separate agreement between the Owner and the Prime
Contractor.
b) Neither final payment nor any remaining retained percentage shall become due until the
Prime Contractor submits to the Architect/Engineer:
1) an affidavit that payrolls, bills for materials and equipment, and other indebtedness
connected with the Work for which the Owner or the Owner’ s property might be
responsible or encumbered ( less amounts withheld by Owner) have been paid or
otherwise satisfied;
2) a certificate evidencing that insurance required by the Contract Documents to remain
in force after final payment is currently in effect and will not be cancelled or allowed
to expire until at least thirty (30) days prior written notice has been given to the Owner;
3) a written statement that the Prime Contractor knows of no substantial reason that the
insurance will not be renewable to cover the period required by the Contract
Documents;
4) a consent of surety to final payment; and
5) if required by the Owner, other data establishing payment or satisfaction of obligations,
such as receipts, releases and waivers of liens, claims, security interests or
encumbrances arising out of the Contract, to the extent and in such form as may be
designated by the Owner.
c) As a precondition to final payment by the Owner under this Contract, the Prime
Contractor' s affidavit under Clause ( b)(1) shall state that the Prime Contractor has paid
each of his subcontractors, laborers or materialmen in full for all labor and materials
provided to Contractor for the Work performed under this Contract. In the event the Prime
Contractor has not paid each of his subcontractors, laborers or materialmen in full, the
Prime Contractor shall state in the affidavit the amount owed and the name of each
subcontractor, laborer or materialmen to whom such payment is owed. IN ANY EVENT,
THE PRIME CONTRACTOR SHALL BE REQUIRED TO EXECUTE THE OWNER' S
STANDARD AFFIDAVIT OF FINAL PAYMENT AND RELEASE AS A
PRECONDITION TO RECEIPT OF FINAL PAYMENT.
d) If, after Substantial Completion of the Work, final completion of the Work is materially
delayed through no fault of the Prime Contractor or by issuance of Change Orders affecting
final completion and the Architect/ Engineer confirms the delay, the Owner shall, upon
application by the Prime Contractor and certification by the Architect/Engineer, and
without terminating the Contract, make payment of the balance due for that portion of the
Work fully completed and accepted. If the remaining balance for Work not fully completed
or corrected is less than retainage stipulated in the Contract Documents, and if bonds have
been furnished, the written consent of surety to payment of the balance due for that portion
of the Work fully completed and accepted shall be submitted by the Contractor to the

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
Architect/Engineer prior to certification of payment. Payment shall be made under terms
and conditions governing final payment, except that it shall not constitute a waiver of
claims.
e) The acceptance by the Prime Contractor of the final payment shall operate as and
shall be a complete release of the Owner from all claims or liabilities under the
Contract, for anything done or furnished or relating to the Work or the Project, or
for any act or neglect of the Owner relating to or connected with the Work or the
Project.
ARTICLE 10 SAFETY, SECURITY AND UTILITY PROVISIONS; ENVIRONMENTAL
COMPLIANCE
10.1 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS AND PROGRAMS
The Prime Contractor shall be responsible forinitiating, maintaining and supervising all safety
precautions and programs in connection with the performance of the Contract, and will
comply with all applicable City, County, State and Federal health and safety regulations.
10.2 SAFETY OF PERSONS AND PROPERTY
a) The Prime Contractor shall take reasonable precautions for safety of, and shall provide
reasonable protection to prevent damage, injury or loss to:
1) employees on the Work and other persons who may be affected thereby;
2) the Work and materials and equipment to be incorporated therein, whether in storage
on or off the site, under care, custody or control of the Prime Contractor or the Prime
Contractor’ s Subcontractors or Sub- subcontractors; and
3) other property at the site or adjacent thereto, such as trees, shrubs, lawns, walks,
pavements, roadways, structures and utilities not designated for removal, relocation or
replacement in the course of construction.
b) The Prime Contractor shall give notices and comply with applicable laws, ordinances,
rules, regulations and lawful orders of public authorities bearing on safety of persons or
property or their protection from damage, injury or loss.
c) The Prime Contractor shall erect and maintain, as required by existing conditions and
performance of the Contract, reasonable safeguards for safety and protection, including
posting danger signs and other warnings against hazards, promulgating safety regulations
and notifying owners and users of adjacent sites and utilities.
d) When use or storage of explosives or other hazardous materials or equipment or unusual
methods are necessary for execution of the Work, the Prime Contractor shall exercise
utmost care and carry on such activities under supervision of properly qualified personnel.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
e) USE OF EXPLOSIVES - CLAIMS AND TOTAL INDEMNIFICATION. The Owner
shall have the right to pre-approve the use of any explosives on the Project; the Prime
Contractor shall not assume in its bid that permission to use explosives will be granted.
The Owner shall NOT be liable for any claim for additional time or compensation as a
result of the Owner' s denial of permission to use explosives. Where use of explosives is
permitted by the Owner, the Prime Contractor EXPRESSLY AGREES TO BE SOLELY
RESPONSIBLE for the determination as to whether explosives shall actually be used, and
for any result from the use, handling or storage of explosives, and shall INDEMNIFY,
DEFEND AND HOLD COMPLETELY HARMLESS the Owner, its officers, agents and
employees, and the Architect/Engineer against any and all claims, lawsuits, judgments,
costs or expenses for personal injury (including death), property damage or other harm for
which recovery of damages is sought, suffered by any person or persons, as the result of
the use, handling or storage of the explosives by the Prime Contractor or any Subcontractor,
REGARDLESS OF WHETHER SAID USE, HANDLING OR STORAGE WAS
NEGLIGENT OR NOT, AND REGARDLESS OF WHETHER THE DAMAGE OR
INJURY WAS CONTRIBUTED TO IN ANY WAY BY THE NEGLIGENCE OR
FAULT OF THE OWNER, ITS OFFICERS, AGENTS, EMPLOYEES, OR
REPRESENTATIVES, OR THE ARCHITECT/ENGINEER AND ITS OFFICERS,
AGENTS, EMPLOYEES, OR REPRESENTATIVES. In the event of conflict with any
other indemnity paragraph in this Contract, this paragraph controls. This indemnity
paragraph is intended solely for the benefit of the parties to this Contract and is not intended
to create or grant any rights, contractual or otherwise, to or for any other person or entity.
The Prime Contractor shall furnish the Owner and the Architect/ Engineer with evidence of
insurance sufficient to cover possible damage or injury, which insurance shall either
include the Owner and the Architect/ Engineer as additional insureds or be sufficiently
broad in coverage as to fully protect the Owner and the Architect/Engineer. All explosives
shall be stored in a safe and secure manner, under the care of a competent watchman at all

times, and all storage places shall be marked clearly and conspicuously: "DANGEROUS-
EXPLOSIVES." The method of storing and handling explosives and highly flammable

materials shall conform to Federal and State laws, City of Denton ordinances, and the City
of Denton Fire Department regulations. The Prime Contractor shall notify any
telecommunications and public utility company and any private property owners having
structures in the proximity of the Project Site of the Prime Contractor’ s intention to use
explosives, and such notice shall be given sufficiently in advance to enable the
telecommunications and public utility companies and private property owners to take such
steps as they may deem necessary to protect their property from injury. The notice shall
not relieve the Prime Contractor of any responsibility for damage resulting from any
blasting operations.
f) The Prime Contractor shall promptly remedy damage and loss (other than damage or loss
insured under property insurance required by the Contract Documents) to property referred
to in Clauses 10.2(a)(2) and 10.2(a)(3) caused in whole or in part by the Prime Contractor,
a Subcontractor, or anyone directly or indirectly employed by any of them, or by anyone
for whose acts they may be liable and for which the Prime Contractor is responsible under
Clauses 10.2(a)( 2) and 10.2(a)( 3), except damage or loss attributable to acts or omissions
of the Owner or Architect/Engineer or anyone directly or indirectly employed by either of
them, or by anyone for whose acts either of them may be liable, and not attributable to the

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
fault or negligence of the Prime Contractor or any of its Subcontractors. The foregoing
obligations of the Prime Contractor are in addition to the Prime Contractor’ s obligations
under Paragraph 3.l9. To the extent that any such damage or loss may be covered by
property insurance or other insurance required by the Contract Documents, the Owner and
the Prime Contractor shall exercise their best efforts to make a claim and obtain recovery
from the insurers to provide for the cost, in whole or in part, of the repair work or to provide
for reimbursement for such damage or loss.
g) The Prime Contractor shall designate a responsible member of the Prime Contractor’ s
organization at the site whose duty shall be the prevention of accidents. This person shall
be the Prime Contractor’ s superintendent unless otherwise designated by the Prime
Contractor in writing to the Owner and Architect/Engineer.
h) The Prime Contractor shall not load or permit any part of the Work or the Project site to be
loaded so as to endanger its safety.
10.3 EMERGENCIES
In an emergency affecting safety, health, or security of persons or property, the Prime
Contractor shall act, at the Prime Contractor’ s discretion, to prevent threatened damage,
injury, or loss. Additional compensation or extension of time claimed by the Prime
Contractor on account of an emergency shall be determined as provided in Paragraph 4.3 and
Article 7.
10.4 PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND SAFETY
a) The Prime Contractor shall place materials stored about the Work and shall conduct the
Work at all times in a manner that causes no greater obstruction to the public than is
considered necessary by the Owner. Sidewalks or streets shall not be obstructed, except
by special permission of the Owner. The materials excavated and the construction
materials or plant used in the performance of the Work shall be placed in a manner that
does not endanger the Work or prevent free access to all fire hydrants, water mains and
appurtenances, water valves, gas valves, manholes for the telephone, telegraph signal or
electric conduits, wastewater mains and appurtenances, and fire alarm or police call
boxes in the vicinity.
b) The Owner reserves the right to remedy any neglect on the part of the Prime Contractor
in regard to public convenience and safety which may come to the Owner's attention,
after twenty- four ( 24) hours’ notice in writing to the Prime Contractor. In case of an
emergency, the Owner shall have the right to immediately remedy any neglect without
notice. In either case, the cost of any work done by the Owner to remedy the Prime
Contractor’ s neglect shall be deducted from the Contract Sum. The Prime Contractor
shall notify the City Traffic Control Department when any street is to be closed or
obstructed. The notice shall, in the case of major thoroughfares or street upon which
transit lines operate, be forty- eight ( 48) hours in advance. The Owner reserves the right
to postpone or prohibit any closure or obstruction of any streets or thoroughfares to the
extent necessary for the safety and benefit of the traveling public. The Prime Contractor

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
shall, when directed by the Architect/Engineer or the Owner, keep any street or streets in
condition for unobstructed use by City departments. When the Prime Contractor is
required to construct temporary bridges or make other arrangements for crossing over
ditches or around structures, the Prime Contractor’ s responsibility for accidents shall
include the roadway approaches as well as the crossing structures.
10.5 BARRICADES, LIGHTS AND WATCHMEN
If the Work is carried on or adjacent to any street, alley or public place, the Prime Contractor
shall, at the Prime Contractor’ s own cost and expense, furnish, erect and maintain sufficient
barricades, fences, lights and danger signals, shall provide sufficient watchmen, and shall
take such other precautionary measures as are necessary for the protection of persons or
property and of the Work. All barricades shall be painted in a color that will be visible at
night, shall indicate in bold letters thereon the Prime Contractor's name and shall be
illuminated by lights from sunset to sunrise. The term “ lights,” as used in this Paragraph,
shall mean flares, flashers, or other illuminated devices. A sufficient number of barricades
with adequate markings and directional devices shall also be erected to keep vehicles from
being driven on or into any Work under construction. The Prime Contractor will be held
responsible for all damage to the Work due to failure of barricades, signs, lights and
watchmen to protect the Work. Whenever evidence is found of such damage, the
Architect/ Engineer may order the damaged portion immediately removed and replaced by
the Prime Contractor at Prime Contractor's cost and expense. The Prime Contractor's
responsibility for maintenance of barricades, signs, and lights, and for providing watchmen,
shall not cease until the Project has been finally accepted by the Owner.
10.6 PUBLIC UTILITIES AND OTHER PROPERTIES TO BE CHANGED
In case it is necessary to change or move the property of the Owner or of any
telecommunications or public utility, such property shall not be removed or interfered with
until ordered to do so by the Architect/Engineer. The right is reserved to the owner of any
public or private utilities to enter upon the Project site for the purpose of making such
changes or repairs of their property that may become necessary during the performance of
the Work. The Owner reserves the right of entry upon the Project site for any purpose,
including repairing or relaying sewer and water lines and appurtenances, repairing structures,
and for making other repairs, changes, or extensions to any of the Owner' s property. The
Owner's actions shall conform to the Prime Contractor's current and approved schedule for
the performance of the Work, provided that proper notification of schedule requirements has
been given to the Owner by the Prime Contractor.
10.7 TEMPORARY STORM SEWER AND DRAIN CONNECTIONS
When existing storm sewers or drains have to be taken up or removed, the Prime Contractor
shall at his own expense provide and maintain temporary outlets and connections for all
public and private storm sewers and drains. The Prime Contractor shall also take care of all
storm sewage and drainage which will be received from these storm drains and sewers; for
this purpose, the Prime Contractor shall provide and maintain, at the Prime Contractor’ s own
expense, adequate pumping facilities and temporary outlets or diversions. The Prime

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
Contractor shall, at the Prime Contractor’ s own expense, construct such troughs, pipes, or
other structures necessary and shall be prepared at all times to dispose of storm drainage and
sewage received from these temporary connections until such time as the permanent
connections are built and in service. The existing storm sewers and connections shall be kept
in service and maintained under the Contract, except where specified or ordered to be
abandoned by the Architect/Engineer. All storm water and sewage shall be disposed of in a
satisfactory manner so that no nuisance is created and that the Work under construction will
be adequately protected.
10.8 ARRANGEMENT AND CHARGE FOR WATER FURNISHED BY THE OWNER;
ELECTRICITY FOR THE PROJECT
a) When the Prime Contractor desires to use the Owner' s water in connection with the Work,
the Prime Contractor shall make complete and satisfactory arrangements with the Denton
Water Utilities Department and shall be responsible for the cost of the water the Prime
Contractor uses. Where meters are used, the charge will be at the regular established rate;
where no meters are used, the charge will be as prescribed by City ordinance, or where no
ordinance applies, payment shall be based on estimates made by the Denton Water Utilities
Department.
b) The Prime Contractor shall make complete and satisfactory arrangements for electricity
and metered electrical connections with the Owner or with Denton Municipal Electric in
the event that separately metered electrical connections are required for the Project. The
Prime Contractor shall pay for all electricity used in the performance of the Work through
separate metered electrical connections obtained by the Prime Contractor through the City
of Denton.
10.9 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS
The Prime Contractor, Subcontractors, and any other person working on the Project shall not
open, turn off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with any fire
hydrant, stop valve, or stop cock, or tap any water main belonging to the Owner, unless duly
authorized to do so by the Denton Water Utilities Department in accordance with the Denton
City Code.
10.10 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
a) The Prime Contractor and its Subcontractors are deemed to have made themselves
familiar with and at all times shall comply with all applicable federal, state or local
laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, and rules of common law now in effect (including
any amendments now in effect), relating to the environment, Hazardous Substances or
exposure to Hazardous Substances, including but not limited to the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C.A. §§
9601, et seq.; the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C.A. §§ 1801, et
seq.; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 42 U.S.C.A. §§ 6901, et
seq.; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C.A §§ 1201, et seq.; the Toxic
Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C.A. §§ 2601, et seq.; the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.A.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547

7401, et seq.; the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C.A. §§ 3808, et seq., and any
current judicial or administrative interpretation of these laws, rules, regulations,
ordinances, or rules of common law, including but not limited to any judicial or
administrative order, consent decree, or judgment affecting the Project.
b) In the event the Prime Contractor encounters on the site materials reasonably believed
to be a Hazardous Substance that have not been rendered harmless, and removal of
such materials is not a part of the scope of Work required under the Contract
Documents, the Prime Contractor shall immediately stop Work in the affected area and
report in writing the facts of such encounter to the Architect/Engineer and the Owner.
Work in the affected area shall not thereafter be resumed except by written order of the
Owner unless and until the material is determined not to be a Hazardous Substance or
the Hazardous Substance is remediated. The Owner may choose to remediate the
Hazardous Substance with a separate contractor or through a Change Order with the
Prime Contractor. If the Owner determines that the Hazardous Substance exists in the
affected area due to the fault or negligence of the Prime Contractor or any of its
Subcontractors, the Prime Contractor shall be responsible for remediating the condition
at the sole expense of the Prime Contractor in accordance with the Prime Contractor’ s
APPROVED Spill Remediation Plan. An extension of the Contract Time for any delay
in the progress schedule caused as a result of the discovery and remediation of a
Hazardous Substance may be granted by the Owner only if all remaining Work on the
Project must be suspended and the delay cannot be made up elsewhere in the progress
schedule. Any request for an extension of the Contract Time related to the discovery
and remediation of a Hazardous Substance is subject to the provisions of Paragraph 4.3
and Article 8.
c) The Prime Contractor shall be responsible for identification, abatement, cleanup,
control, removal, remediation, and disposal of any Hazardous Substance brought into
or upon the site by the Prime Contractor or any Subcontractor or Supplier. The Prime
Contractor shall obtain any and all permits necessary for the legal and proper handling,
transportation, and disposal of the Hazardous Substance and shall, prior to undertaking
any abatement, cleanup, control, removal, remediation, and disposal, notify the Owner
and the Architect/ Engineer so that they may observe the activities; provided, however,
that it shall be the Prime Contractor’ s sole responsibility to comply with all applicable
laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances governing the activities.
d) Spill Prevention Plan. At least seventy- two ( 72) hours prior to commencing
performance of any of the Work at the Project site, the Prime Contractor shall submit
to the Owner for review and approval a Spill Prevention and Response Plan ( SPRP)
meeting the requirements of federal and state law, rules, and regulations. The SPRP
shall be specially designed for the Prime Contractor' s planned work methods and
procedures. The SPRP shall be designed to complement all applicable safety standards,
fire prevention regulations, and pollution prevention policies and procedures. The
SPRP shall include estimates of the quantity and rate of flow should equipment fail,
and detail containment or diversionary structures to prevent spills from leaving the site
or migrating into adjacent properties or navigable waters. The SPRP shall include
methods of recovery of spilled materials and all applicable twenty- four ( 24) hour

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547

emergency phone numbers, including without limitation that of the Owner’ s Project
Manager or other designated representative. The Prime Contractor shall not commence
any field work prior to approval of such plan by the Owner. The following additional
rules shall apply with respect to spills caused by the Prime Contractor or a
Subcontractor:
1) The Prime Contractor shall immediately report any spill or release at the Project
site, whether or not it is associated with this Contract, to the Owner’ s Project
Manager or other designated representative. Thereafter, within two ( 2) working
days after the occurrence of such event, the Prime Contractor shall submit a written
report describing such event in a degree of detail reasonably acceptable to the
Owner.
2) The Prime Contractor shall immediately respond in accordance with the SPRP in
the event of a spill.
3) The Prime Contractor shall dispose of spilled materials in accordance with EPA
and Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) regulations and any
other applicable federal, state, or local laws, rules, or regulations. In connection
with such disposals, the Prime Contractor shall use only those transporters and
disposal facilities that are approved in advance in writing by the Owner. A copy of
all transport manifests for the spilled materials shall be obtained and retained in the
Prime Contractor’ s records for reference purposes, to be provided upon request of
the Architect/Engineer, the Owner, or any governmental regulatory agency with
jurisdiction over the matter. ALL COSTS OF COLLECTION, CONTAINMENT,
AND DISPOSAL OF SPILLED MATERIALS SHALL BE THE SOLE
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE PRIME CONTRACTOR.
4) For purposes of this Subparagraph ( e), the term “ spill” includes any kind of
environmental discharge or release.
e) Clean Air Management Plan. The Prime Contractor shall comply with the Clean Air
Management Plan submitted to and approved by the Owner during the contractor
selection process. The Owner reserves the right, at the Prime Contractor’ s sole expense,
to require the removal or retrofitting of any equipment used in the course of
construction that does not comply with the Plan submitted to and approved by the
Owner.
f) The Prime Contractor shall deposit surplus or waste excavation or other materials
removed as part of the Work at a legal disposal site in accordance with all applicable
state, federal, and local laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances. The Prime Contractor
shall submit to the Owner for review and approval all planned disposal sites or
proposed uses for the surplus or waste excavation or other materials prior to removal
of any excavation or other material from the Project site. A copy of all transport
manifests for surplus or waste excavation or other materials shall be obtained and
retained in the Prime Contractor’ s records for reference purposes, to be provided upon
request to the Architect/ Engineer, the Owner, or any governmental regulatory agency
with jurisdiction over the matter.
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
g) The Prime Contractor is responsible for obtaining all TXPDES Storm Water Permits
from TCEQ for construction of the Project under regulations contained in 40 CFR Part
122, as amended, pursuant to the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C.A. §§1251 et seq. These
regulations require the filing of a notice of intent to obtain and abide by the general
storm water permit for construction activities promulgated by EPA, including but not
limited to cleaning, grading, and excavation that disturb the applicable amount of total
land area. In addition, the Prime Contractor shall comply with all regulations of the
Owner relating to storm water and storm water runoff management at the Project site
pursuant to Chapter 19, Article IX, Denton City Code, as amended.
h) The Prime Contractor shall not install any materials in the performance of the Work
that contain asbestos or asbestos-related material such as hydrated mineral silicate,
including chrysolite, amosite, crocidolite, tremolite, anthophylite or actinolite, whether
friable or non-friable.
i) The Owner reserves the right in its sole option to exercise the following remedies
without waiving the right to pursue the imposition of any civil or criminal fines or
penalties that may be imposed under state, federal, or local laws or ordinances), at no
additional cost to the Owner and without an extension of the Contract Time, in the
event the Prime Contractor fails or refuses after seven (7) days advance written notice
from the Owner to comply with the provisions of this Paragraph 10.10, the terms of the
SPRP, the terms of the Clean Air Management Plan, any storm water permit or other
environmental permit issued in connection with the Work, or any applicable
environmental law, rule, regulation, or ordinance:
1) suspend all or any portion of the Work until the noncompliance is corrected, or until
a detailed plan to achieve compliance within a reasonably prompt period of time is
prepared by the Prime Contractor and approved by the Owner;
2) if the Prime Contractor fails to properly address the noncompliance within the time
stipulated by the Owner, perform the necessary remediation or correction work and
back charge the Prime Contractor for the cost of the remediation or correction; or
3) terminate the Contract for cause as provided in Article 13.

ARTICLE 11 INSURANCE AND BONDS
11.1 PRIME CONTRACTOR’S INSURANCE
Prime Contractors shall refer to the requirements listed within the solicitation document and
resulting contract for all City of Denton insurance requirements. Should a conflict arise
between the solicitation document and the resulting contract, the requirements set forth in the
actual contract shall prevail.
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547
Professional Liability Insurance
Professional liability insurance with limits not less than $ 1,000,000.00 per claim with
respect to negligent acts, errors or omissions in connection with professional services is
required under this Agreement.
Builders' Risk Insurance
Builders' Risk Insurance, on an All-Risk form for 100% of the completed value shall be
provided. Such policy shall include as " Named Insured" the City of Denton and all
subcontractors as their interests may appear.
Environmental Liability Insurance
Environmental liability insurance for $1,000,000 to cover all hazards contemplated by this
contract.
Riggers Insurance
The Contractor shall provide coverage for Rigger’ s Liability. Said coverage may be
provided by a Rigger’ s Liability endorsement on the existing CGL coverage; through and
Installation Floater covering rigging contractors; or through ISO form IH 00 91 12 11,
Rigger’ s Liability Coverage form. Said coverage shall mirror the limits provided by the
CGL coverage
Commercial Crime
Provides coverage for the theft or disappearance of cash or checks, robbery inside/ outside
the premises, burglary of the premises, and employee fidelity. The employee fidelity
portion of this coverage should be written on a “ blanket” basis to cover all employees,
including new hires. This type insurance should be required if the contractor has access to
City funds. Limits of not less than $ each occurrence are required.
Additional Insurance
Other insurance may be required on an individual basis for extra hazardous contracts and
specific service agreements. If such additional insurance is required for a specific contract,
that requirement will be described in the " Specific Conditions" of the contract
specifications.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547

ATTACHMENT 1

X] Workers’ Compensation Coverage for Building or Construction Projects for
Governmental Entities
A. Definitions:
Certificate of coverage (" certificate")- A copy of a certificate of insurance, a certificate

of authority to self-insure issued by the commission, or a coverage agreement (TWCC-
81, TWCC- 82, TWCC- 83, or TWCC- 84), showing statutory workers' compensation

insurance coverage for the person's or entity's employees providing services on a
project, for the duration of the project.
Duration of the project - includes the time from the beginning of the work on the
project until the contractor's/person's work on the project has been completed and
accepted by the governmental entity.
Persons providing services on the project (" subcontractor" in §406. 096) - includes all
persons or entities performing all or part of the services the contractor has undertaken
to perform on the project, regardless of whether that person contracted directly with
the contractor and regardless of whether that person has employees. This includes,
without limitation, independent contractors, subcontractors, leasing companies, motor
carriers, owner-operators, employees of any such entity, or employees of any entity
which furnishes persons to provide services on the project. " Services" include, without
limitation, providing, hauling, or delivering equipment or materials, or providing
labor, transportation, or other service related to a project. " Services" does not include
activities unrelated to the project, such as food/beverage vendors, office supply
deliveries, and delivery of portable toilets.
B. The contractor shall provide coverage, based on proper reporting of classification
codes and payroll amounts and filing of any overage agreements, which meets the
statutory requirements of Texas Labor Code, Section 401. 011( 44) for all employees
of the Contractor providing services on the project, for the duration of the project.
C. The Contractor must provide a certificate of coverage to the governmental entity prior
to being awarded the contract.
D. If the coverage period shown on the contractor' s current certificate of coverage ends
during the duration of the project, the contractor must, prior to the end of the coverage
period, file a new certificate of coverage with the governmental entity showing that
coverage has been extended.
E. The contractor shall obtain from each person providing services on a project, and
provide to the governmental entity:
1. a certificate of coverage, prior to that person beginning work on the project, so
the governmental entity will have on file certificates of coverage showing
coverage for all persons providing services on the project; and

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547

2. no later than seven days after receipt by the contractor, a new certificate of
coverage showing extension of coverage, if the coverage period shown on the
current certificate of coverage ends during the duration of the project.
F. The contractor shall retain all required certificates of coverage for the duration of the
project and for one year thereafter.
G. The contractor shall notify the governmental entity in writing by certified mail or
personal delivery, within 10 days after the contractor knew or should have known, of
any change that materially affects the provision of coverage of any person providing
services on the project.
H. The contractor shall post on each project site a notice, in the text, form and manner
prescribed by the Texas Workers' Compensation Commission, informing all persons
providing services on the project that they are required to be covered, and stating how
a person may verify coverage and report lack of coverage.
I. The contractor shall contractually require each person with whom it contracts to
provide services on a project, to:
1. provide coverage, based on proper reporting of classification codes and payroll
amounts and filing of any coverage agreements, which meets the statutory
requirements of Texas Labor Code, Section 401.011(44) for all of its employees
providing services on the project, for the duration of the project;
2. provide to the contractor, prior to that person beginning work on the project, a
certificate of coverage showing that coverage is being provided for all employees
of the person providing services on the project, for the duration of the project;
3. provide the contractor, prior to the end of the coverage period, a new certificate of
coverage showing extension of coverage, if the coverage period shown on the
current certificate of coverage ends during the duration of the project;
4. obtain from each other person with whom it contracts, and provide to the contractor:
a. a certificate of coverage, prior to the other person beginning work on the project;
and
b. a new certificate of coverage showing extension of coverage, prior to the end of
the coverage period, if the coverage period shown on the current certificate of
coverage ends during the duration of the project;
5. retain all required certificates of coverage on file for the duration of the project and
for one year thereafter;
6. notify the governmental entity in writing by certified mail or personal delivery,
within 10 days after the person knew or should have known, of any change that
materially affects the provision of coverage of any person providing services on the
project; and

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547

7. Contractually require each person with whom it contracts, to perform as required
by paragraphs ( 1) - (7), with the certificates of coverage to be provided to the person
for whom they are providing services.
J. By signing this contract or providing or causing to be provided a certificate of
coverage, the contractor is representing to the governmental entity that all employees
of the contractor who will provide services on the project will be covered by workers'
compensation coverage for the duration of the project, that the coverage will be based
on proper reporting of classification codes and payroll amounts, and that all coverage

agreements will be filed with the appropriate insurance carrier or, in the case of a self-
insured, with the commission's Division ofSelf-Insurance Regulation. Providing false

or misleading information may subject the contractor to administrative penalties,
criminal penalties, civil penalties, or other civil actions.
K. The contractor’ s failure to comply with any of these provisions is a breach of contract
by the contractor which entitles the governmental entity to declare the contract void if
the contractor does not remedy the breach within ten days after receipt of notice of
breach from the governmental entity.
DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Contract 6547

Exhibit F

Certificate of Interested Parties Electronic Filing

In 2015, the Texas Legislature adopted House Bill 1295, which added section 2252. 908 of the
Government Code. The law states that the City may not enter into this contract unless the
Contractor submits a disclosure of interested parties ( Form 1295) to the City at the time the
Contractor submits the signed contract. The Texas Ethics Commission has adopted rules requiring
the business entity to file Form 1295 electronically with the Commission.
Contractor will be required to furnish an original notarized Certificate of Interest Parties
before the contract is awarded, in accordance with Government Code 2252.908.
The contractor shall:
1. Log onto the State Ethics Commission Website at :
https:// www.ethics. state.tx.us/whatsnew/ elf_info_form1295. htm
2. Register utilizing the tutorial provided by the State
3. Print a copy of the completed Form 1295
4. Enter the Certificate Number on page 2 of this contract.
5. Sign and notarize the Form 1295
6. Email the notarized form to purchasing@cityofdenton.com with the contract number in the
subject line. (EX: Contract 1234 – Form 1295)
The City must acknowledge the receipt of the filed Form 1295 not later than the 30th day after
Council award. Once a Form 1295 is acknowledged, it will be posted to the Texas Ethics
Commission’ s website within seven business days.

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT G

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

EXHIBIT H

DocuSign Envelope ID: F3FB7B3E-3FE4-4B9C-B335-A887E178AEC8

Certificate Of Completion
Envelope Id: F3FB7B3E3FE44B9CB335A887E178AEC8 Status: Completed
Subject: City Council Docusign Item - 6547
Source Envelope:
Document Pages: 113 Signatures: 4 Envelope Originator:
Certificate Pages: 6 Initials: 0 Jody Word
AutoNav: Enabled
EnvelopeId Stamping: Enabled
Time Zone: ( UTC- 08: 00) Pacific Time ( US & Canada)

jody.word@cityofdenton.com
IP Address: 10.102.101.11

Record Tracking
Status: Original
10/6/2017 1:22:45 PM

Holder: Jody Word
jody.word@cityofdenton.com

Location: DocuSign
Signer Events Signature Timestamp
Jody Word
jody.word@cityofdenton.com
Buyer
City of Denton
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional)

Completed
Using IP Address: 129.120.6.150

Sent: 10/6/2017 1:29:09 PM
Viewed: 10/6/2017 1:29:19 PM
Signed: 10/6/2017 1:31:07 PM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign
Aiko Smith
fscinc1@verizon. net
President, CEO
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional) Using IP Address: 47.184.96.49

Sent: 10/ 6/2017 1:31: 09 PM
Viewed: 10/ 6/2017 1:33: 32 PM
Signed: 10/6/2017 2:54:03 PM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Accepted: 10/6/2017 1:33:32 PM
ID: d28a4556-806e-4a3f-9b71-60cb4a752d09
Jennifer DeCurtis
jennifer.decurtis@cityofdenton.com
Deputy City Attorney
City of Denton
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional)

Using IP Address: 129.120.6.150

Sent: 10/6/2017 2:54:07 PM
Viewed: 10/6/2017 3:06:16 PM
Signed: 10/6/2017 3:06:24 PM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign
Julia Winkley
julia.winkley@cityofdenton.com
Contracts Administration Supervisor
City of Denton
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional)

Completed
Using IP Address: 129.120.6.150

Sent: 10/6/2017 3:06:26 PM
Viewed: 10/9/2017 10:37:28 AM
Signed: 10/17/2017 2:38:24 PM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign
Todd Hileman
todd.hileman@cityofdenton.com
City Manager
City of Denton
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional)

Using IP Address: 47.190.47.120
Signed using mobile

Sent: 10/17/2017 2:38:27 PM
Viewed: 10/17/2017 3:48:37 PM
Signed: 10/17/2017 7:34:09 PM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:

Signer Events Signature Timestamp
Accepted: 7/25/2017 9:02:14 AM
ID: 57619fbf-2aec-4b1f-805d-6bd7d9966f21
Jennifer Walters
jennifer.walters@cityofdenton.com
City Secretary
City of Denton
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional)

Using IP Address: 129.120.6.150

Sent: 10/17/2017 7:34:12 PM
Viewed: 10/19/2017 10:57:27 AM
Signed: 10/19/2017 10:58:04 AM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign
In Person Signer Events Signature Timestamp
Editor Delivery Events Status Timestamp
Agent Delivery Events Status Timestamp
Intermediary Delivery Events Status Timestamp
Certified Delivery Events Status Timestamp
Carbon Copy Events Status Timestamp
Julia Winkley
julia.winkley@cityofdenton.com
Contracts Administration Supervisor
City of Denton
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional)

Sent: 10/6/2017 2:54:06 PM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign
Sherri Thurman
sherri.thurman@cityofdenton.com
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional)

Sent: 10/ 6/2017 2:54: 06 PM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign
Jane Richardson
jane.richardson@cityofdenton.com
Assistant City Secretary
City of Denton
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional)

Sent: 10/17/2017 2:38:26 PM
Viewed: 10/18/2017 10:32:05 AM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign
Robin Fox
Robin.fox@cityofdenton.com
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional)

Sent: 10/17/2017 2:38:26 PM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign

Carbon Copy Events Status Timestamp
Jennifer Bridges
jennifer.bridges@cityofdenton.com
Procurement Assistant
City of Denton
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional)

Sent: 10/19/2017 10:58:07 AM
Viewed: 10/20/2017 2:13:12 PM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign
Jane Richardson
jane.richardson@cityofdenton.com
Assistant City Secretary
City of Denton
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional)

Sent: 10/19/2017 10:58:08 AM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign
Keith Gabbard
Keith.Gabbard@cityofdenton.com
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
Optional)

Sent: 10/19/2017 10:58:09 AM
Viewed: 10/19/2017 11:00:02 AM

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign
Notary Events Signature Timestamp
Envelope Summary Events Status Timestamps
Envelope Sent Hashed/Encrypted 10/19/2017 10:58:09 AM
Certified Delivered Security Checked 10/19/2017 10:58:09 AM
Signing Complete Security Checked 10/19/2017 10:58:09 AM
Completed Security Checked 10/19/2017 10:58:09 AM
Payment Events Status Timestamps
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure

ELECTRONIC RECORD AND SIGNATURE DISCLOSURE
From time to time, City of Denton ( we, us or Company) may be required by law to provide to
you certain written notices or disclosures. Described below are the terms and conditions for
providing to you such notices and disclosures electronically through your DocuSign, Inc.
DocuSign) Express user account. Please read the information below carefully and thoroughly,
and if you can access this information electronically to your satisfaction and agree to these terms
and conditions, please confirm your agreement by clicking the ' I agree' button at the bottom of
this document.
Getting paper copies
At any time, you may request from us a paper copy of any record provided or made available
electronically to you by us. For such copies, as long as you are an authorized user of the
DocuSign system you will have the ability to download and print any documents we send to you
through your DocuSign user account for a limited period of time ( usually 30 days) after such
documents are first sent to you. After such time, if you wish for us to send you paper copies of
any such documents from our office to you, you will be charged a $ 0.00 per- page fee. You may
request delivery of such paper copies from us by following the procedure described below.
Withdrawing your consent
If you decide to receive notices and disclosures from us electronically, you may at any time
change your mind and tell us that thereafter you want to receive required notices and disclosures
only in paper format. How you must inform us of your decision to receive future notices and
disclosure in paper format and withdraw your consent to receive notices and disclosures
electronically is described below.
Consequences of changing your mind
If you elect to receive required notices and disclosures only in paper format, it will slow the
speed at which we can complete certain steps in transactions with you and delivering services to
you because we will need first to send the required notices or disclosures to you in paper format,
and then wait until we receive back from you your acknowledgment of your receipt of such
paper notices or disclosures. To indicate to us that you are changing your mind, you must
withdraw your consent using the DocuSign ' Withdraw Consent' form on the signing page of your
DocuSign account. This will indicate to us that you have withdrawn your consent to receive
required notices and disclosures electronically from us and you will no longer be able to use your
DocuSign Express user account to receive required notices and consents electronically from us
or to sign electronically documents from us.
All notices and disclosures will be sent to you electronically
Unless you tell us otherwise in accordance with the procedures described herein, we will provide
electronically to you through your DocuSign user account all required notices, disclosures,
authorizations, acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or
made available to you during the course of our relationship with you. To reduce the chance of
you inadvertently not receiving any notice or disclosure, we prefer to provide all of the required
notices and disclosures to you by the same method and to the same address that you have given
us. Thus, you can receive all the disclosures and notices electronically or in paper format through
the paper mail delivery system. If you do not agree with this process, please let us know as
described below. Please also see the paragraph immediately above that describes the
consequences of your electing not to receive delivery of the notices and disclosures
electronically from us.
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure created on: 7/21/2017 1:59:03 PM
Parties agreed to: Aiko Smith, Todd Hileman

How to contact City of Denton:
You may contact us to let us know of your changes as to how we may contact you electronically,
to request paper copies of certain information from us, and to withdraw your prior consent to
receive notices and disclosures electronically as follows:
To contact us by email send messages to: purchasing@cityofdenton. com
To advise City of Denton of your new e-mail address
To let us know of a change in your e- mail address where we should send notices and disclosures
electronically to you, you must send an email message to us at melissa. kraft@cityofdenton. com
and in the body of such request you must state: your previous e-mail address, your new e- mail
address. We do not require any other information from you to change your email address..
In addition, you must notify DocuSign, Inc to arrange for your new email address to be reflected
in your DocuSign account by following the process for changing e- mail in DocuSign.
To request paper copies from City of Denton
To request delivery from us of paper copies of the notices and disclosures previously provided
by us to you electronically, you must send us an e-mail to purchasing@cityofdenton. com and in
the body of such request you must state your e- mail address, full name, US Postal address, and
telephone number. We will bill you for any fees at that time, if any.
To withdraw your consent with City of Denton
To inform us that you no longer want to receive future notices and disclosures in electronic
format you may:
i. decline to sign a document from within your DocuSign account, and on the subsequent
page, select the check- box indicating you wish to withdraw your consent, or you may;
ii. send us an e- mail to purchasing@cityofdenton. com and in the body of such request you
must state your e- mail, full name, IS Postal Address, telephone number, and account
number. We do not need any other information from you to withdraw consent.. The
consequences of your withdrawing consent for online documents will be that transactions
may take a longer time to process..
Required hardware and software
Operating Systems: Windows2000? or WindowsXP?
Browsers ( for SENDERS): Internet Explorer 6.0? or above
Browsers ( for SIGNERS): Internet Explorer 6.0?, Mozilla FireFox 1.0,

NetScape 7.2 (or above)
Email: Access to a valid email account
Screen Resolution: 800 x 600 minimum
Enabled Security Settings:

Allow per session cookies
Users accessing the internet behind a Proxy
Server must enable HTTP 1.1 settings via
proxy connection

These minimum requirements are subject to change. If these requirements change, we will
provide you with an email message at the email address we have on file for you at that time
providing you with the revised hardware and software requirements, at which time you will
have the right to withdraw your consent.

Acknowledging your access and consent to receive materials electronically
To confirm to us that you can access this information electronically, which will be similar to
other electronic notices and disclosures that we will provide to you, please verify that you
were able to read this electronic disclosure and that you also were able to print on paper or
electronically save this page for your future reference and access or that you were able to
e-mail this disclosure and consent to an address where you will be able to print on paper or
save it for your future reference and access. Further, if you consent to receiving notices and
disclosures exclusively in electronic format on the terms and conditions described above,
please let us know by clicking the ' I agree' button below.
By checking the ' I Agree' box, I confirm that:
I can access and read this Electronic CONSENT TO ELECTRONIC RECEIPT OF
ELECTRONIC RECORD AND SIGNATURE DISCLOSURES document; and
I can print on paper the disclosure or save or send the disclosure to a place where I can
print it, for future reference and access; and
Until or unless I notify City of Denton as described above, I consent to receive from
exclusively through electronic means all notices, disclosures, authorizations,
acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or made
available to me by City of Denton during the course of my relationship with you.
 
Page  1  of  63  
 

 
Uploaded on 21.12.2023  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TENDER DOCUMENT 
 
 
 
e-TENDER No: SRO/CON/ETS/186 

 
 
 
Tender for “Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)  for the project Provision of 
Administrative and Logistic Infrastructure Under Wp-07 and Wp-5b At Naval Station 
Rambilli Visakhapatnam – package-03”- Short Notice tender 
 

 
VOLUME – I 
 
 
 
 
Notice Inviting e-Tender (NIT), Special Instructions to Bidder for e-Tendering, Instruction to 
Tenderer (ITT) & Additional Conditions of Contract (ACC), Addendum to ITT, Bidder 
Information, Form of Tender, Memorandum, Letter of Undertaking, Affidavit, undertaking for 
local content, and General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENGINEERING PROJECTS (INDIA) LIMITED 

(A GOVT. OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 

Southern Regional Office, Chennai 

 
 
 


Page  2  of  63  
 

 
Index 

Sl.  
No.

 

Description  
Page  No.  
No. of 
Pages

1.  
Notice Inviting e-Tender (NIT). 
3-17 
14 

2.  
Special Instructions to Bidders for e-Tendering. 
18-19 
2 

3.  
Additional Condition of Contract 
20-35 
23 

4. 
Addendum to ITT. 
36 
1 

5. 
Bidder Information. (Annexure-I) 
37 
1 

6. 
Bankers Details (Annexure-II) 
38 
1 

7.  
Form of Tender. (Annexure-III) 
39-40 
2 

8.  
Memorandum. (Annexure-IV) 
41-42 
2 

9.  
Letter of Undertaking.(Annexure-V) 
43 
1 

10. 
Proforma for Affidavit. (Annexure-VI) 
44 
1 

11. 
Bankers Certificate / Net worth Certificate ( Annexure-VII) 
45 
1 

12. 
Bid capacity (Annexure-VIII) 
46 
1 

13. 
List of existing works completed & on going (Annexure-A) 
47 
1 

14. 
Undertaking for Present  Directors in the company 
(Annexure-IX) 

48 

 
1 

15.  
Declaration for Public Procurement  (Annexure-X)  
49 
1 

16.. 
 Integrity Pact (Annexure-XI) 
50 
6 

17. 
Tender Acceptance Letter (Annexure-XII) 
51 
1 

18. 
Site Visit declaration (Annexure-XIII) 
52 
1 

19. 
Declaration for no additions/deletion/corrections made in the 
downloaded tender document   (Annexure-XIV)  

53 

 
1 

20. 
Bid Security / EMD BG Format (Annexure-XV) 
54 
1 

21 

Instruction to Tenderer & GPC of EPIL, Manual for e-
tendering _ CPPP 
 

Separate 

booklet 
137 


Page  3  of  63  
 

ENGINEERING PROJECTS (INDIA) LTD. 

(A. Govt. of India Enterprise) 
S OUTHERN  R EGIONAL  O FFICE ,   C HENNAI  

 
NOTICE INVITING e-TENDER (NIT)  

 
NIT No: SRO/CON/ETS/186  
 
 
 
 
 
    Date: 21.12.2023. 
 
Tender for  “ Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)  for the project Provision of Administrative 
and Logistic Infrastructure Under Wp-07 and Wp-5b At Naval Station Rambilli Visakhapatnam – 
package-03-  Short Notice tender 
 

 
Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. invites an  Open Limited online item Rate tenders  through e-

tendering from the client approved Suppliers who fulfill the eligibility criteria as per the brief 

particulars of scope for the  “ Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)  for the project Provision of 

Administrative and Logistic Infrastructure Under Wp-07 and Wp-5b At Naval Station Rambilli 

Visakhapatnam – package-03  in  Single Stage  , two bid system (Techno-commercial bid & Price 

Bid) for the following works:  

 

Sl.
No  

Name of Work
Estimated cost 
Including GST @ 

18% & all other 

taxes  

in Rs 

Completion 

Period 

Earnest 

Money 
Deposit 
(EMD) In Rs 

Tender fees  

In Rs 

1. 
Supply of Ready-
mix 
Concrete 
(RMC)  for the 
project Provision 
of Administrative 
and 
Logistic 
Infrastructure 
Under Wp-07 and 
Wp-5b At Naval 
Station 
Rambilli 
Visakhapatnam – 
package-03  

30,00,00,000.00 
 

 (Rupees Thirty 
Crores 
only) 
including 
GST 
and 
labour 
cess. 
 

26 (Twenty 
Six) months 

* +  
12 Months 

Defect 
Liability 

Period 

from 
completion 

whole 
project  

Rs.  40,00,000.00
(Rupees Fourty 
Lakhs only)    
 

  

Rs. 5,900/-  
(Rupees 
Five Thousand and 
Nine Hundred Only) 
Including GST @ 
18%  

 

Note :  
1.  The above cost including Cement, Aggregate, Batching mixing etc . But the cement will be 
supplied by EPI on chargeable basis. 
 
Scope of Work:- 
   
Estimated cost is based on DSR – 2021 for scheduled items and prevailing market rate for Non-
Scheduled items.    


Page  4  of  63  
 

 
The scope of work included but not limited to: - Completion of following works in the below 
mentioned buildings 
 

a) Providing and supplying of Ready mix concrete of M40 grade of concrete for piling, Pile caps, 

Columns, Retaining walls, Plinth beams, Grade slabs, Lintels & Chajjas, Facias, Roof beams 
and slabs up to floor VI level  including providing required materials Cement, Course and fine 
aggregates, Admixtures, Hiring, Operation, Maintenance of Batching plant, Transit mixtures, 
Concrete Pump, Diesel Generators, Loaders,  of work also including Operators, Pipe riggers, 
Labours, etc.  
 
b) Providing and supplying of PCC at different grade of concrete for piling, Pile caps, Columns, 

Retaining walls, Plinth beams, Grade slabs, Lintels & Chajjas, Facias, Roof beams and slabs 
up to floor VI level  including providing required materials Cement, Course and fine aggregates, 
Admixtures, Hiring, Operation, Maintenance of Batching plant, Transit mixtures, Concrete 
Pump, Diesel Generators, Loaders,  of work also including Operators, Pipe riggers, Labours, 
etc.  
 
c) Scope Construction of temporary structure for field laboratory of 20’ X 20’ size, Cube curing 

tanks, with necessary equipment’s, Quality control services and maintaining of quality control 
documents, etc.  
 

d) Approved vendors for supply of RMC 
 

[i] M/s. RMC Ready Mix India Pvt. Ltd. 
[ii] M/s. Associated Cement Co Ltd 
[iii] M/s. Birla Ltd 
[iv] M/s LAFARGE Aggregates & Concrete Pvt Ltd, Visakhapatnam 
[v] M/s. Ultratec Concrete / Lafarge A & C 
[vi] M/s. Vipasana Concrete, Visakhapatnam 
[vii] M/s. Sarvani RMC, Visakhapatnam 
 
 

e) The following buildings are in the scope of this tender:- 

1. Administrative Building -01 
2. Port Control Tower  
3. MI Room 
4. Station Health Office 
5. Naval Provost Building 
6. Commander Yard Craft 
7. Secondary School 
8.  Warehouse 
1. Administrative Building -02 
2. Naval KG School  
3. Bus stop 
4. 40 Bedded Hospital 
5. Nursing hostel 
6. Gas Manifold 
7. Bio medical waste 
8. Mortuary  
9. Swimming Pool 
10. Gymnasium 


Page  5  of  63  
 

11. Grand stand 
12. Toilet Block 
13. Athletic track 
14. Volleyball and basket ball 
15. Auditorium 
16. Ware house 
17. Submarine repair yard 
18. Submarine store 
19. CS repair yard 
20. Engineering Service building 
21. STP  
22. External Roads  
23. External Services 
Etc other essential service buildings including demolition of old structures  
 
Project site Information 
 
Location 
 
: Rambilli, Visakhapatnam. Andhra Pradesh. 
Near Railway Station : Anakapalli Railway Station  (Approx 25 KM) Railway Station 
Nearest Airport 
: Visakhapatnam International Airport, Vizag (Approx 62 km) 
 

The details of scope of work are given in the tender document.  
 
Time schedule of Tender activities:  
 
(i) 
Last Date & Time of online submission of Tenders on or before  01.01.2024  Upto 03.00PM. 
 
(ii) 
Date & Time of online opening of Tender (Techno-Commercial Bid):  02.02.2024  at 03.00PM  

  
(iii) 
Date of Pre-bid Meeting on  26.12.2023 at 03.00 PM , at Project Coordination Office (PCO), 
Visakhapatnam.  
 

Interested Bidders are requested to submit their queries to  sro.contracts@epi.gov.in     on or 
before  26.12.2023  at 12.30PM 
 
Integrity Pact (IP) & Details of Independent External Monitor (IEM) 
 

This tender is covered under Integrity Pact. The particulars of IEM (independent External 
Monitor) of EPIL is as under: 
 

1. Shri. Arun Kumar Sharma,  
Email id: Sharmaak6@gmail.com 
 

2. Shri. Animesh Chauhan, 
Email id: animeshchau@gmail.com 
 

 
The Integrity Pact (IP) as per format given at  Annexure- VIII of Volume – 1  of this tender 
document is to be submitted in Rs. 100/- stamp paper (duly signed and stamped by the 


Page  6  of  63  
 

authorized signatory who signs in the offer) and notarized along with Techno Commercial Bid. 
Only those bidders who have entered such an IP with EPIL would be competent to participate in 
the bidding. In other words, entering this pact would be a preliminary qualification. 

 
 
1.1 
TECHNICAL PRE-QUALIFICATION CRITERIA: 
     Bidders who fulfill the following requirements are eligible to participate in this Tender. The 

Joint Ventures are not accepted. Also Certificate submitted in JV/ Consortium not accepted. 
 

1.1.1  The following parties are approved by DGNP for supplying the ready mix, hence they are only 

qualified bidders to submit the bid. The qualified bidder should upload the proof of DGNP 
approval letter duly notarized. 
 

[i] M/s. RMC Ready Mix India Pvt. Ltd. 
[ii] M/s. Associated Cement Co Ltd 
[iii] M/s. Birla Ltd 
[iv] M/s LAFARGE Aggregates & Concrete Pvt Ltd, Visakhapatnam 
[v] M/s. Ultratec Concrete / Lafarge A & C 
[vi] M/s. Vipasana Concrete, Visakhapatnam 
[vii] M/s. Sarvani RMC, Visakhapatnam 
 
1.1.1.1 Providing supply of Ready mix concrete for at least 8,000 cum per Year ( in any grade of 

concrete ) to the projects controlled by DGNP Vizag by using Concrete batching plant with 
transit mixtures and pumping services, etc., 
 
1.1.2  The experience certificate in this regard should be issued by officer not below the rank of 

Executive Engineer / Project Manager / Unit Officer. 
 
 
1.1.3  For evaluation purpose, the completion cost of works mentioned in the Completion Certificate 

shall be enhanced by Seven Percent (7%) per annum till the end of month prior to date of NIT. 
The cost of free issue materials, if any, shall not be included in the completion cost of works. 
 
1.1.4  The experience certificates issued by Government Organizations / Semi Government 

Organizations / State Government Public Works Department / Central Government / Public 
Sector Undertakings / Autonomous Bodies / Municipal Bodies / Public Limited Companies listed 
on BSE/NSE and Private Party shall be accepted for assessing the eligibility of tender. 
However, the certificates issued by a Public Limited Company & Private Party must be 
supported by work order & TDS certificates for completed value.  
 

Relevant Experience certificates and other documents as mentioned above fulfill the qualifying 
criteria duly self-attested by the tenderer shall be uploaded on online submission, The 
Completion certificate from Clients shall be in the name of the company who is submitting the 
tender. The bidder has to produce original documents for verification at the time of opening of 
tender or as and when demanded. The tender of any bidder shall be rejected if on detailed 
scrutiny, documents submitted along with the tender are found to be unsatisfactory. The 
decision of EPI in this regard shall be final and binding on the bidder. 


Page  7  of  63  
 

 

EPI reserves its right to take appropriate action including disqualification of tenderer(s) as may 
be deemed fit and proper by EPI at any time without giving any notice to the Bidder in this 
regard. The decision of EPI in the matter of disqualification shall be final and binding on the 
Bidders.   

 
1.1.5  It is desired that the bidder visits the site before submitting the bid to assess the Ground 

condition and working conditions at site. Incase bidder decide not to visit site, they shall be 
responsible for all the consequences there of. Bidder has to submit a self-declaration with the 
bid in respect of the same. 
 
1.1.6  Bid Capacity:   VOID, Since the tender is Open Limited tender this clause will not 

applicable   
 
1.1.7  The bidders shall visit the project site to Study / assess the tendered work and also 

acquaint themselves of the prevailing local conditions before submitting their bid. Bidder 
has to upload filled site visit form duly signed by bidder representative   
 
1.1.8  Subletting of works is not allowed (100 % Subletting (Back-to-back) is not allowed). 

Bidder should provide self ‐ undertaking for the same.  
 
1.1.9 Bidder should submit the copy of Police verification report / Police Clearance 

Certificate / Character Certificate from police authority of the area where the 
registered office of the firm is located (or) notarized copy of valid passport of 
proprietor/each partner/each Director. 
 
 
1.2 
Commercial Pre-Qualification criteria:  
 
1.2.1 
The average annual financial turnover on Construction Works should be atleast 50% of the 
estimated cost put to tender during the immediate last three consecutive financial years 
ending 31.03.2023. Turnover certificate duly certified by a Chartered Accountant along with 
UDIN issued by ICAI is also to be submitted. 
  
1.2.2 
Should not have incurred any losses in more than two years during the immediate last Five 
consecutive financial years, ending 31.03.2023. Bidder to submit audited copies of Annual 
report/Balance Sheet and Profit & Loss account statement for the last five financial years 
ending on  31.03.2023 . i.e. for financial year of  2018-19,   2019-20, 2020-21 , 2021-22 and 
2022-23 . 
 

NOTE: Bidder should submit a certificate from Statutory Auditors /  Registered  CA 
clearly mentioning that the figures of turnover are from ‘Construction works only’ 
during the immediate last three consecutive Financial Years for 2020-21, 2021-22 and 
2022-2023.  
 


Page  8  of  63  
 

1.2.3 
Should submit a  Banker’s Certificate  from Commercial Bank of the amount equal to 40% of 
the estimated cost put to tender. The banker’s certificate should not have been issued earlier 
than three (3) months of last date of submission of tender.  

Or 
Net Worth certificate of Minimum 10% of the estimated cost put to tender issued by certified 
Chartered Accountant with Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN). The net worth 
certificate shall be of the last financial year ending on 31st March 2023. 
 
The Bankers certificate & Net worth certificate shall be in the format prescribed in the 
enclosed  Annexure -VII.  
 
1.2.4 
Should have valid Permanent Account Number of Income Tax (Copy of PAN to be enclosed). 
 
1.2.5 
Should have Goods and Service Tax (GST) Registration No. (Copy of GST Registration 
certificate to be enclosed).   In case the bidder do not have valid GST registration number in 
the state of Andhra Pradesh, the same shall be obtained by the successful bidder within one 
month from the date of LOI or before release of 1st R/A bill whichever is earlier. 
 
1.2.6 
The bidder should have valid PF & ESI Registration and should submit all pages of ESI & PF 
Certificates duly signed by concerned authorities, along with copies of latest ESI & PF 
Payment Challans. 
 
1.2.7 
The (Public procurement policy) policy is meant for procurement of only goods produced and 
services rendered by Micro Small Enterprises (MSEs). However, trader / distributors/ sole 
agency Works Contract are excluded from the purview of Public Procurement Policy for MSEs 
Order 2012 
 

Since the tender is called as supply tender, Exempt ion   f or  s ub miss i o n  t e n d e r fee and  
EMD is allowed for this tender.  
 
1.2.8 
The bidder has to submit  undertaking  regarding details of Constitution of firm / Company 
along with the details of its Directors as per enclosed  Annexure ‐ IX . Incase, the bidder fails to 
submit Constitution of firms with the bid along with the details of its firm Directors as per 
Annexure ‐ D their bid will be rejected.  

 
1.2.9 
Any bidder from a country which shares a land border with India will be eligible to participate 
in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent authority i.e. Registration 
committee constituted by the Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). 
 

Even though an applicant may satisfy the eligibility criteria, EPI reserves the right to reject the 
tender documents if he has record of poor performance such as abandoning work, not 
properly completing the work, delay in completion of work, poor quality of work, financial 
failure / weakness etc.   
 
1.2.9.1  The credentials of the Bidders with respect to Technical & Financial criteria shall be 
verified and inspection of the works, if required, to be carried out by EPI. If not found satisfactory 
by EPI, their bid will be considered non-responsive and rejected. 
 


Page  9  of  63  
 

1.2.10 
Notwithstanding anything stated in tender, EPI reserves the right to assess the capabilities 
and capacity of the tenderer to perform the contract, in the overall interest of EPl. lncase, 
tenderer's capabilities and capacities are not found satisfactory, EPI reserves the right to 
reject the tender. If any credentials submitted by the bidder are found false/fraud, the bidder 
shall be debarred from future tender of EPI, besides rejection of bid and forfeit the full said 
Earnest Money absolutely. 
 
1.2.11 
The Bidder should not have been blacklisted or Debarred in any State Govt./Municipal 
Corporations/Central Govt./any State Govt. Organizations, Urban Local Body and/or its 
Undertaking company during last 10 years ending last day of the previous month of date of 
NIT. Bidder has to submit a notarized self ‐ declaration with the bid in respect of the same that 
“He has not been reprimand in past 10 years for poor performance and also he has not been 
debarred by any of his client/ in any State Govt./Municipal Corporations/Central Govt./any 
State Govt. Organizations, Urban Local Body for poor performance, unprofessional/ slow 
work leading to cancellation of his ongoing assignment”. 
 
1.2.12 
Bidder should submit the Affidavit as  Annexure – A  (enclosed with NIT) on Rs.100/-non-
judicial stamp paper for the details of completed and ongoing works.   
 
1.2.13 
List of Approved makes is enclosed in Volume -II. In special circumstances and due to non-
availability of approved make product, bidder may propose equivalent make meeting entire 
Technical requirement, specification along with required details in support of the same. The 
same would be analyzed and accepted if found suitable and shall be used in works after 
obtaining the prior approval of Engineer in-charge of EPI/Client.  
    
1.2.14    Agency must open its own office for co-ordination at site location.  

 
1.3 
Evaluation of the bidders: 
 

Evaluation of the Bidders shall be subject to through verification of their documents related 
with credentials and BG and if required inspection of similar type works carried out / in 
progress by them, through a Technical Committee of experts to be constituted by EPIL. Price 
Bid is to be submitted in online mode separately, and price bid of technically qualified 
bidders will only be opened. Price bids of all eligible bidders will be opened only after 
receiving the confirmations of Credentials & BG from the concerned Department/Bank. 
 
1.4 
Tender documents comprising of the following are available on the website of EPI: www.epi.gov.in  
& CPP Portal : https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app  
 
1.4.1 
Volume – I: 
 

Notice Inviting e-Tender (NIT), Special Instructions to Bidder for e-Tendering, Addendum to ITT, 
Additional Purchase Condition , Letter of Undertaking, Form of tender, Memorandum, Bidder 
Information, Affidavit non ‐ judicial stamp paper of Rs.100 for Bidding Capacity (Annexure ‐ VIII), 
Affidavit non ‐ judicial stamp paper of Rs.100 for list of executed & ongoing works (Annexure ‐ A), 
Letter of Undertaking for Constitution of Firm (Annexure ‐ IX) and Declaration for local content 
(Annexure ‐ X), Tender Acceptance Letter (Annexure XII), Banker certificate / Solvency Certificate 
(Annexure ‐ VII),    and other documents as per qualification criteria.,  Instruction to Tenderer (ITT) 


Page  10  of  63  
 

&  General Purchase Conditions (GPC),  DGNP Condition of contract. 
 
1.4.2 
Volume – II:        
 

Mix design, Technical Specifications with Scope of Work and Drawings. 
 
1.4.3 
Volume – III:  
 

Priced Bid of Quantity cum Quoting Sheet. 
 
1.5 
In  order to participate, the bidder should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) from one of 
the authorized Certifying Authorities.  
 
1.6 
Interested 
bidders 
have 
to 
necessarily 
register 
themselves 
on 
the 
portal 
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app to participate in the bidding under this invitation for bids. It 
shall be the sole responsibility of the interested bidders to get them registered at the aforesaid 
portal for which they are required to contact. 
 

For any technical related queries please call at 24x7 Help Desk 
Number 0120 ‐ 4001002,0120 ‐ 4001005,0120 ‐ 6277787 
 
International Bidders are requested to prefix+91 as country code 
Technical ‐ support ‐ eproc@nic.in  
Policy Related ‐ cppp ‐ doe@nic.in 
 

They may obtain further information regarding this tender from General Manager (Contracts) at the 
address given at Clause No 1.29  below from 10:00 hours to 17:00 hours on all working days till 
the last date of online submission of Bidding Documents.  
 
No special character like! @, #, $, %, &, *, _ to be include while saving the file/uploading. 
 

For proper uploading of the bids on the portal namely https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app 
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘portal’), it shall be the sole responsibility of the bidders to apprise 
themselves adequately regarding all the relevant procedures and provisions as detailed at the 
portal as well as by contacting M/s CPPP., directly, as and when required, for which contact 
details are mentioned above. The EPI in no case shall be responsible for any issues related to 
timely or properly uploading/submission of the bid in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Section Instruction to Bidders of the Bidding Documents. 
 
1.7 
Bidders can download the bid document from the portal without registering or paying 
document fees in advance, any time from 17.00 on 21.12.2023. However, interested bidders 
have to pay tender fees for participating in the tendering and submitting the bid. For this 
purpose, the interested bidders shall be required to pay  Rs. 5,900/- including GST @ 18% 
as non-refundable document fees in the form of Online payment to “Engineering Projects (India) 
Ltd.” payable at  Chennai . However, tenders submitted without or insufficient tender fees shall be 
rejected 

THE GSTIN OF EPI FOR CHENNAI IS 33AAACE0061C1ZK 
 
EPI BANK DETAILS FOR TENDER FEE PAYMENT AS FOLLOWS: 


Page  11  of  63  
 

  
NAME OF THE BANK : INDIAN OVERSEAS BANK.  
BRANCH: 116, THIYAGARAJA ROAD, T.NAGAR, CHENNAI  
NAME OF THE ACCOUNT HOLDER : ENGINEERING PROJECTS (INDIA) LIMITED  
ACCOUNT NO: 009102000006493  
IFSC: IOBA0000091 
 
1.7.1   EMD  ‐  The bid must be accompanied by an Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) of  Rs.  

40,00,000.00 (Rupees Fourty Lakhs only) . This can be either in th e form of Insurance 
Surety Bond or Account Payee Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit Receipt or Banker’s 
cheque in an acceptable form for the full amount of EMD payable favouring  “Engineering 
Projects (India) Limited” payable at New Delhi or Bank Guarantee of any Nationalized  Bank/ 
Scheduled Bank / Commercial bank supporting with SFMS conformation as per bank 
details mentioned above as per the enclosed format or payment online as above 
mentioned account details. The EMD shall be valid for minimum period of 150 days (One 
hundred fifty) from the last day of submission of tender. The earnest money (if any) will be 
forfeited without any prejudice to any right or remedy, in case the Bidder withdraws his 
Tender during the validity period or incase he changes his offer to his benefits, which are 
not acceptable to EPI. The bid shall be valid for 90 days from last date of submission of the 
tender. The validity period may be extended on mutual consent.  (EMD BG format is 
enclosed as Annexure-XV) 
 

EPI BANK details for BG payment as follows: 
Account no: 200001601125 
IFSC: INDB0000012 
Name of the Bank : IndusInd Bank Limited. 
Branch: M-56 Greater Kailash -II( Main market ) 
 

The bidder should also upload the scanned copies of all the above-mentioned original 
documents as Bid Annexure during Online Bid-Submission in addition to PQ documents 
listed in NIT clause, Addendums and corrigendum’s duly signed and stamped 

In case of EMD BG bidder must submit SFMS message sent by their issuing bank as a part of 
the bid with EMD. 

 
1.7.2  The bid must be accompanied by Tender fee and Earnest Money Deposit (EMD). Tenders 

submitted without EMD or inadequate amount of EMD shall be rejected. 

 
1.8 
E-Bids must be uploaded and submit along with scanned copies of relevant documents 
pertaining to Clause no.4.0 under Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding Procedure on the CPP 
Portal online or before last date and time of online bid submission. Late bids will not be 
accepted. Under the above procedure, only the first envelope (Technical Part) shall be 
opened in the presence of the bidders’ representatives who choose to attend in person at the 
address given below on schedule date and time of bid opening or may be viewed by the 
bidders by logging into the portal as per features available to them. Second envelope i.e., 
Price part shall be opened of technically qualified bidders.  
 


Page  12  of  63  
 

1.9 
The Terms & Conditions contained in this NIT and tender documents shall be applicable. In 
case of any unscheduled holiday taken place on the last day of submission of tender, then 
working day will be treated as scheduled day and time for submission of Tender.  
 
1.10 
EPI reserves the right to extend the date of submission of the tender or cancel the tender or 
accept any tender or reject any or all tenders or split the work of tender or annul this tendering 
process without assigning any reason and liability what so ever and to re-invite tender at its 
sole discretion. 
 
1.11 
The rates quoted by the bidder shall be firm and fixed for the entire period of completion and 
till handing over of the work. No revision to rates or any escalation shall be allowed on 
account of any increase in prices of materials, labour, POL and Overheads etc. during the 
entire contract period or extended contract period. 
 

The rates quoted by bidder shall be included all applicable taxes, duties, cess & GST etc. 
However, ESI, EPF will be payable at actual after receipt of deposited challans. 
 
1.12 
The corrigendum or addendum, extension, cancellation of this NIT, if any, shall be hosted on 
the EPI’s website as well as CPP portal https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app the bidders are 
required to check these websites regularly for this purpose, to take into account before 
uploading/submission of tender. All Corrigendum and addendum are to be uploaded duly 
signed & stamped with tender documents as bid Annexure. 
 
1.13 
All corrigendum and Addendum shall be part of the tender document and are to be submitted duly 
signed and stamped by tenderer. Even if tenderer fails to submit corrigendum and addendum duly 
signed by him, it will be deemed that the tenderer have gone through such corrigendum / 
addendum, if any, and no claim shall be entertained by EPI on account of any omission / error on 
his part  
 
1.14 
The price bid of those bidders whose bid has been technically accepted on the basis of 
documents submitted shall be opened with prior intimation to them. However, it is made clear 
that the price bid of the eligible bidders will be opened only after receiving  the confirmation of 
credentials & BG from the concerned department/Bank. 
 
1.15 
Incase, of e-tender, where two or more firms are bidding lowest, the CPWD rule 4B of 
General Rules and Directions of tender committee shall be followed. 
 
1.16 
EPI reserves the right to delete any item after awarding the work due to design change / soil 
condition changes. 
 
1.17 
Material recovered from excavation / dismantling should be properly stacked and handed over 
to EPI/DGNP, as the property of EPI/DGNP.  
 
1.18 
Make In India : 
 


Page  13  of  63  
 

Bidders to use as much as possible the material / services from MSME. Contractors to use as 
much as possible, the material/service from MSEs & Local suppliers / Manufacturers for 
promotion of Make in India.  
 
For Promotion of Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) order 2017 (amended on 
28.05.2018) GOI Guideline for procurement, the equivalent Indian makes of materials 
conforming to requisite quality in addition to List of Makes/Brands may be considered subject 
to approval of Client/  EPI Engineer In charge . 
 

All the bidders (Class–I local supplier, Class ‐ II local Supplier, Non ‐ Local Supplier) shall be 
required to provide a certificate from the statutory auditor or cost auditor of the company (in 
the case of companies) or from a practicing cost accountant or practicing chartered 
accountant (in respect of supplies other than companies) giving the percentage of local 
content in their bid as per  Annexure ‐ X  irrespective of whether they are availing or not availing 
purchase preference under public procurement (Preference to Make in India) Policy. 
 
1.18.1  Policy is meant for procurement of only goods produced and services rendered by Micro 

Small Enterprises (MSEs). However, trader / distributors/ sole agency /  Works Contract 
are excluded from the purview of Public Procurement Policy for MSEs Order, 2012  
 
1.18.2  Definitions :  

i. „Local content‟ means the amount of value added in India in the total value of the item procured) 
excluding net domestic indirect taxes) minus the value of imported content in the item (including all 
customs duties) as a proportion of the total value, in percent.  
ii. „Class-I local supplier‟ means supplier or services provider, whose goods, services or works 
offered for procurement, meets the minimum local content i.e. 50% of total value of the goods, 
services or works.  
iii. „Class-II local supplier‟ means supplier or services provider, whose goods, services or works 
offered for procurement, meets the minimum local content i.e. 20% of total value of the goods, 
services or works.  
iv. „Non- Local supplier‟ means a supplier or service provider, whose goods, services or works 
offered for procurement, has local content less than that prescribed for „Class-II Local Supplier‟ as 
mentioned above.  
 
 
1.18.3  Purchase preference will be given to Class-I local supplier as the case may be as detailed 

below : 
 
I. 
Among all qualified bids the lowest bid will be termed as L1. If L1 is „Class-I Local Supplier‟ 
the contract for full quantity will be awarded to L1. 
II. 
II. If L1 is not „Class-I Local Supplier‟, the lowest bidder among the „Class-I Local supplier 
„, will be invited to match the L1 price subject to „Class-I 17 of 35 Local supplier‟s quoted 
price falling within the margin of purchase preference (L1+20%) and the contract shall be 
awarded to such „Class-I Local supplier‟ subject to matching the L1 price.  
III. 
In case such lowest eligible „Class-I Local supplier‟ fails to match the L1 price, the „Class-I 
Local supplier‟ with the next higher bid within the margin of purchase (L1+20%) preference 


Page  14  of  63  
 

shall be invited to match the L1 price and so on and contract shall be awarded accordingly. 
In case none of the „Class-I Local supplier‟ within the margin of purchase preference 
(L1+20%) matches the L1 price, the contract may be awarded to the L1 bidder. 
 
1.18.4  Class-II Local Supplier‟ will not get purchase preference in any procurement, undertaken by 

procuring entities 
1.18.5  The Class-I local supplier/Class-II local supplier at the time of tender shall provide self-

certification on their Company letter head as per Annexure LC-I. 
1.18.6  False declarations will be breach of the code of integrity under Rule 175 (I) (i)(h) of the General 

Finance Rules for which a bidder or its successors can be debarred for upto two years as per 
rule 151 (iii) of the General Financial Rules along with such other actions as may be 
permissible under law 
1.18.7  A supplier / vendor who has been debarred by any procuring entity for violation of Public 

Procurement order shall not be eligible for preference under this order for procurement by any 
other procuring entity for the duration of the debarment. 
1.18.8  All the bidders (i.e. Class I local suppliers, Class II local supplier, Non local supplier) shall 

provide the percentage of local content in their bid irrespective of whether they are availing or 
not availing Purchase preference under Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) 
policy. 
1.18.9  All the bidders (Class –I local supplier, Class-II local Supplier, Non-Local Supplier) shall be 

required to provide a certificate from the statutory auditor or cost auditor of the company (in the 
case of companies) or from a practicing cost accountant or practicing chartered accountant (in 
respect of supplies other than companies) giving the percentage of local content in their bid as 
per Annexure – LC-1 & LC-2 of NIT irrespective of whether they are availing or not availing 
purchase preference under public procurement (Preference to Make in India) Policy 
 
1.19 
In case of any discrepancy between the downloaded tender documents from the website and 
the uploaded copy by the tenderer, the tender documents appearing in the website being 
uploaded by EPI with the tender shall hold good for contractual as well as legal purposes. The 
tenderer shall furnish a declaration to this effect that “no addition/deletion/corrections have 
been made in the downloaded tender document being uploaded by him and it is identical to 
the tender document appearing on the Website. In case of any discrepancy between the 
downloaded tender documents from the website and the uploaded copy by me/us, the tender 
documents appearing in the website being uploaded by EPI with the tender shall hold good 
for contractual as well as legal purposes”. 
 
1.20 
Disqualification 
 

The tenderers may note that they are liable to be disqualified and not considered for the 
opening of Price Bid if; 
 
1.20.1 
Non ‐ Submission of Tender Fee and EMD as per NIT Condition. 
1.20.2 
Representation in the forms, statements and attachments submitted in the pre ‐  qualification 
document are proved to be incorrect, false and misleading. 


Page  15  of  63  
 

1.20.3 
EPI reserves its right to take appropriate action including disqualification of tenderer(s) as may be 
deemed fit and proper by EPI at any time without giving any notice to the Bidder in this regard. 
The decision of EPI in the matter of disqualification shall be final and binding on the Bidders. 
1.20.4 
If bidder have submitted incompletely filled in formats without attaching certified supporting 
documents and credentials to establish their eligibility to participate in the Tender. 
1.20.5 
If the tenderers attempt to influence any member of the committee. EPI reserves its right to take 
appropriate action including disqualification of tenderer(s) as may be deemed fit and proper by EPI 
at any time without giving any notice to the contractor in this regard. The decision of EPI in the 
matter of disqualification shall be final and binding on the Tenderers. 
1.20.6 
If documents are not uploaded by the bidder as per instructions/due to special characters while 
saving files,  the files are unable to download the bids will be disqualified. 
1.20.7 
The Bidder is expected to examine all instructions, forms, terms and specifications in the bidding 
documents. Failure to furnish all information required by the bidding documents or submission of a 
bid not substantially responsive to the bidding documents in every respect will be at the bidder’s 
risk and may result in the rejection of its bid. 
1.20.8 
In case of existing contractors of EPI, if progress is not satisfactory in any of the project their bid 
will be rejected. 
1.20.9 
The credentials of the Bidders with respect to Technical & Financial criteria shall be verified and 
inspection of the works, if required will be carried out by EPI. If not found satisfactory by EPI, their 
bid will be considered non ‐ responsive and rejected. 
 
1.20.10 
To the satisfaction of EPI / DGNP,  They have record of poor performance during the past 10 
years such as abandoning the work, rescinding of contract for which the reasons are attributable 
to the non  ‐  performance of the contract, inordinate delay in completion, consistent history of 
litigation / arbitration awarded against the contractor or any of its constituents or financial failures 
due to bankruptcy etc. in their on ‐ going / past projects. 
 
The Tenderer / Legal Entity / Vendor who currently holds any litigation / dispute with EPI shall not 
participate in this tender, in pursuance thereof, the Director(s) / Legal Entity who holds office in 
multiple companies in whatsoever manner relating to the litigant / disputant with EPI shall not 
participate in this tender and incase a tenderer is found to conceal or neglect this stipulation in 
securing this work the purchase order or LOI issued to him shall stand automatically withdrawn. 
 

Note : If any tenderer withdraws his tender before the said period or issue of letter of 
acceptance/intent, whichever is earlier, or makes any modifications in the terms and 
conditions of the downloaded tender which are not acceptable to the EPIL, then the EPIL 
shall, without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit entire amount of 
Earnest Money as aforesaid. 
 

1.21 
Tenderer shall submit the scanned copies of duly signed and stamped documents as 
per clause. No. 4 of Addendum to ITT below as a part of Technical bid online. Only 
Online mode will be accepted for tender submission. No documents are required to be 
submitted offline by the bidders.  
 
1.22 
Bidder’s Confirmation 
 


Page  16  of  63  
 

Bidder confirms that they have read and understood and have copies of the ‘Tender 
Documents’ and have visited the site and their offer will be based on the ‘tender Documents’ 
and caters to all the works, requirements, etc. thereof. All corrections/cuttings are to be 
signed by the bidder. 
 
1.23 
In the event, this agreement with the DGNP is terminated or DGNP instruct to 
Cancel/terminate the Work Order, the agreement between EPIL and Contractor will 
automatically stand terminated and that he should take away T&P and surplus materials from 
site of work after the joint measurements are taken of the same.  
 
1.24 
Procurement Restriction for Foreign Products 
 
Bidder should follow the circular for Restrictions on Public Procurement from certain 
countries by Ministry of Finance vide press note Posted On: 23 JUL 2020 10:14PM by PIB 
Delhi 
 
Bidder shall submit following Certificate along with tender. 
 
“I have read the clause regarding restriction on procurement from a bidder of a countries 
shares a land border with India and on sub-contracting to Bidders from such countries; I 
certify that this bidder is not from such a country or, if from such a country, has been 
registered with the Competent Authority and will not subcontract any work to a Bidder from 
such countries unless such Bidder is registered with the Competent Authority. I hereby 
certify that this bidder fulfills all requirements in this regard and is eligible to be considered. 
{Where applicable, evidence of valid registration by the Competent Authority shall be 
attached}” 
 
1.25 
FALSE STATEMENT 
Incase any of the credentials are provided to false / fabricated, not only tender will be 
rejected and action shall be initiated to debar the bidder for future participation in EPIL 
tender. 
 

In case, at a later stage, it is found that the Bidder has submitted incorrect, false details and 
credentials resulting in apprehensions on the capabilities of Bidder with regard to quality & 
timely completion of works, financial capabilities etc. EPI can terminate this agreement solely 
at their option. In this eventuality the Bidder shall be liable for the losses suffered by EPI / 
DGNP and the Bidder shall have no claim on EPI/DGNP, whatsoever. 
 

The tender / bid of any tenderer/bidder shall be rejected if in the detailed scrutiny documents 
submitted along with the tender/bid are found to be unsatisfactory /forged. The decision of 
EPI in this regard shall be final and binding on the tenderer/bidder. 
 

No bidder will be allowed at any time on any ground whatsoever, to claim revision of or 
modification in the rates quoted by him. There presentation of the bidder that computation / 
typographical or clerical error etc. has been committed in the bid and request for reversion 


Page  17  of  63  
 

on such plea shall not been entertained after opening of the bid. 
 
1.25.  Only Online mode will be accepted for tender submission .  No documents are required to be 

submitted offline by the bidders. The bidders have to submit, the scanned copy of Tender 
fee receipt after depositing the tender fee online in EPI’s Bank Account along with the 
online bid.   
 
The scanned copy of Earnest Money deposit as mentioned in the NIT (Insurance Surety 
Bond, Bank Guarantee, DD, Bankers Cheque etc) shall be submitted by the bidders with 
their online bid. However, the original of the same shall be submitted by the bidder at the 
later stage as and when required by EPI.   
 
1.26 
Validity of Tender  
The validity of offer(s) submitted by Tenderer shall be ninety (90) days from the last date of 
submission of the Tender" The earnest money will be forfeited without any prejudice to any 
right or remedy, in case the Contractor withdraws his offer(s) during the validity period or in 
case he changes his offer to his benefits, which are not acceptable to EPl" The validity 
period may be extended on mutual consent. 
 
1.27 
Post tender clarification will not be sought in case of non ‐ submission of Tender Fee or EMD 
of requisite amount as per NIT condition or unconditional letter of Acceptance or Affidavit for 
Correctness of documents/information or Basic Qualification Criteria Documents. In such  case 
the bidder shall be rejected summarily without seeking any further clarification/documents. 
 
1.28 
Contract Agreement / Purchase Order 
 

 
The Bidder shall enter into a Contract Agreement with EPI within 21 days of the date of 
Letter of Intent or within such extended time, as may be granted by EPI. The cost of stamp 
papers, stamp duty, registration, if applicable on the contract, shall be borne by the Bidder. 
In case, the Bidder does not sign the agreement as above or does not start the work within 
10 days of the issue of Letter of Intent, his earnest money is liable to be forfeited and letter of 
intent consequently will stand withdrawn. 
 
1.29 
All correspondence with regard to the above shall be to the following address 
(By Post/ In Person) 

 
General Manager (Contracts), 
Southern Regional Office, 
Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. 
3D, EC Chambers, 92 GN Chetty Road 
T.Nagar, Chennai – 600 017 
  Tel No. – 044 – 28156421, 28156886 
   E-mail –   sro.contracts@epi.gov.in  
 
 
 
 
 


Page  18  of  63  
 

Contact details for site related / Technical Queries / site visit/ pre-bid meeting: 
 

Shri Sharon Satyanadh Ganji GM 
Engineering Projects (India) Ltd, 
(A Govt of India Enterprise) 
Kurmanapalem, Near A+ Hospital, 
VISAKHAPATNAM,  
ANDHRA PRADESH 530046 
E-mail – 
pco-vizag@epi.gov.in  
 
 

 
 
For more information on EPI, visit our website at:  https://epi.gov.in/auth/tender.php  

For 
more 
information 
on 
the 
e-tender 
visit 
website 
e-procurement 
portal 
/website https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app 

 

GM (Contracts) 
Date: 21.12.2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Page  19  of  63  
 

 
 
2.0 
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS FOR e-TEN D ERING.  
 
 
2.1.1 
Some Bidding related Information for this Tender (online Bid) 
 

The entire bid submission would be online only and submitted in CPP Portal 
i.e. https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app .  
 

Broad outline of submissions are as follows: 
 

   Submission of Bid ‐ Parts/Envelopes 

   Technical ‐ Part (as per clause no. 4.0- Addendum to ITT)  
   Financial ‐ Part  
 

Submission of Bid:  
 

The Bidder should upload the scanned copies of all the original documents & Annexure  
as mentioned in  NIT Clause No.4.0 and Bid - Annexures  during online Bid-
submission.  
 
2.1.2 
However original documents of EMD if required by EPIL, shall be provided  to the following 
address: 

General Manager (Contracts), 
Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. 
3D, EC Chambers, 92 GN Chetty Road 
T.Nagar, Chennai – 600 017 
 E-mail –sro.contracts@epi.gov.in 

 
If the envelopes is not sealed and marked as instructed above, the Employer assumes no 
responsibility for the misplacement or premature opening of the contents of the BID submitted 
and consequent losses, if any, suffered by the Bidder. 
 
2.1.3 
Bids submitted by fax, telex, telegram or e-mail shall not be entertained and shall be 
summarily rejected. 
 
2.1.4 
BID Due Date 
 

Technical & Financial BID comprising of the documents listed at clause 4.0 of the tender shall 
be submitted online through e-procurement portal CPPP on or before the date mentioned in 
data sheet.   
 
E-Procurement Portal shall not allow submission of any Bid after the prescribed date and time 
mentioned in page no. 4 of NIT.. Physical receipt of same shall not be accepted.  
 
 
 

 


Page  20  of  63  
 

 

For any technical related queries please call at 24x7 Help Desk 

Number 0120-4001002,0120-4001005,0120-6277787  

International Bidders are requested to prefix+91 as country code 

Technical  support-eproc@nic.in  

Policy Related  cppp-doe@nic.in 

2.2 
BIDDER’S GUIDE FOR EPIL PORTAL:  

 
Please refer  
 
Appendix 1  ‐  Bidder Registration Module  & 
 
Appendix 2  ‐  Bid Submission Module for assistanc e in onli n e  bi d ding p r oc edur e . 
 
Please note that at the end the bid must be final submit, otherwise the same will not be 
considered. 
 
For any assistance regarding the Tender Document and/or term and conditions the bidders 
may contact at EPIL at the following address / email. 
 

General Manager (Contracts), 
Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. 
3D, EC Chambers, 92 GN Chetty Road 
T.Nagar, Chennai – 600 017 
 E-mail –sro.contracts@epi.gov.in 
 
 
 

For any assistance during bid submission, system settings etc.  bidders may contact at 
CPPP:  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Page  21  of  63  
 

3 
ADDITIONAL PURCHASE CONDITIONS  

 

The following Additional Purchase Conditions shall be read in conjunction with General 
Purchase Conditions of EPI. If there are any provisions in these Additional Conditions of 
Contract, which are at variance with the provisions of General Purchase Conditions, the 
provisions in these Additional Purchase Conditions shall take precedence.  

 
3.1.0 
INTRODUCTION  

“ Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)  for the project Provision of Administrative and 
Logistic Infrastructure Under WP-07 and Wp-5B At Naval Station Rambilli Visakhapatnam – 
package-01  Following clauses of Additional Purchase Conditions (APC) shall be applicable for 
this contract. These Additional Purchase Conditions shall be read in conjunction with General 
Conditions of Contract, Instructions to Tenderers (ITT)), Notice Inviting Tender (NIT), Bill of 
Quantities (BOO), Tender conditions and Technical specifications & Other Tender 
Documents.  
 
3.2.0 
APPROACHES TO WORKSITE 

The land is made available to the bidder(s)/contractor(s) free from all encumbrances as DGNP 
provided to EPI. The contractor shall make his own arrangement for approach to work site 
including borrow/ disposal area and for movement of men, materials, machineries, other 
equipment etc. required for carrying out the work under this contract.  
 

The access roads/ path to the work site may not be available at all places and at all time. The 
contractor shall plan his work as per the availability of access roads / path at site. All drainage 
of works area and all weather truck able haulage roads as required by the contractor shall be 
constructed and maintained during the construction period by the contractor at his own cost, 
including portions of the road already existing. if required after obtaining approval in writing of 
the GE to the layout of such approaches, to convey men, materials, plants and machinery 
required for the satisfactory completion of work and on completion of work the site shall be 
cleared of all temporary approaches. The tendered rates shall, interalia, be deemed to include 
for the aforesaid contingencies. 
 
SITE VISIT AND COLLECTING LOCAL INFORMATION: 
 
Before tendering, the tenderer is advised to visit the site, its surroundings to assess and satisfy 
themselves about the local conditions such as the working and other constraints at site, approach to 
the site, availability of water & power supply, application of taxes, cess duties and levies as applicable, 
nature of ground, soil and sub-soil condition, underground water table level, accommodations they may 
require etc., river regime, river water levels, other details of river, streams & any other relevant 
information required by them to execute complete scope of work. The tenderer may obtain all 
necessary information as to risks, weather conditions, contingencies & other circumstances 
(insurgencies etc.), which may influence or affect their tender prices.  Tenderer shall be deemed to 
have considered site conditions to get satisfied himself in all respect before participating the tender. 
 
In addition to the above, the contractor / firms are requested to prepare a proposed methodology and 
program of construction, backed with equipment planning and deployment, duly supported with broad 
calculations and quality control procedures proposed to be adopted, justifying their capability of 
execution and completion of the work as per technical specifications within the stipulated period of 
completion as per milestones based upon their site visit and collected information and has to be 


Page  22  of  63  
 

submitted.  
 
 
3.3.0 
SCOPE  OF WORK: 

The project site for the work is clear and readily available. 
 
Estimated cost is based on DSR – 2021 for scheduled items and prevailing market rate for Non-
Scheduled items.    
 
The scope of work included but not limited to: - Completion of following works in the below 
mentioned buildings 
 

a) Providing and supplying of Ready mix concrete of M40 grade of concrete for piling, Pile caps, 

Columns, Retaining walls, Plinth beams, Grade slabs, Lintels & Chajjas, Facias, Roof beams 
and slabs up to floor VI level  including providing required materials Cement, Course and fine 
aggregates, Admixtures, Hiring, Operation, Maintenance of Batching plant, Transit mixtures, 
Concrete Pump, Diesel Generators, Loaders,  of work also including Operators, Pipe riggers, 
Labours, etc.  
b) Providing and supplying of PCC at different grade of concrete for piling, Pile caps, Columns, 

Retaining walls, Plinth beams, Grade slabs, Lintels & Chajjas, Facias, Roof beams and slabs 
up to floor VI level  including providing required materials Cement, Course and fine aggregates, 
Admixtures, Hiring, Operation, Maintenance of Batching plant, Transit mixtures, Concrete 
Pump, Diesel Generators, Loaders,  of work also including Operators, Pipe riggers, Labours, 
etc.  
c) Approved vendors for supply of RMC 
 

[i] M/s. RMC Ready Mix India Pvt. Ltd. 
[ii] M/s. Associated Cement Co Ltd 
[iii] M/s. Birla Ltd 
[iv] M/s LAFARGE Aggregates & Concrete Pvt Ltd, Visakhapatnam 
[v] M/s. Ultratec Concrete / Lafarge A & C 
[vi] M/s. Vipasana Concrete, Visakhapatnam 
[vii] M/s. Sarvani RMC, Visakhapatnam 
 
 
d) Scope Construction of temporary structure for field laboratory of 20’ X 20’ size, Cube curing 

tanks, with necessary equipment’s, Quality control services and maintaining of quality control 
documents, etc.  
 

e) The following buildings are in the scope of this tender:- 

1. Administrative Building -01 
2. Port Control Tower  
3. MI Room 
4. Station Health Office 
5. Naval Provost Building 
6. Commander Yard Craft 
7. Secondary School 
8.  Warehouse 
9. Administrative Building -02 
10. Naval KG School  
11. Bus stop 


Page  23  of  63  
 

12. 40 Bedded Hospital 
13. Nursing hostel 
14. Gas Manifold 
15. Bio medical waste 
16. Mortuary  
17. Swimming Pool 
18. Gymnasium 
19. Grand stand 
20. Toilet Block 
21. Athletic track 
22. Volleyball and basket ball 
23. Auditorium 
24. Ware house 
25. Submarine repair yard 
26. Submarine store 
27. CS repair yard 
28. Engineering Service building 
29. STP  
30. External Roads  
31. External Services 
 
Etc other essential service buildings including demolition of old structures  

 
 
Note:  
1. EPI reserves the right to change the mix design as per lab testing conducting frequently based 

on the source of aggregate, cement etc. 
2. However, the quantity of this order shall remain shame even after adding the new building.   
 
3.4.0 
ORDER OF PRECEDENCE: 

 

Clause 42.1 of GPC stands amended as under: 
In case of difference, contradiction, discrepancy, dispute with regard to Conditions of Contract, 
Specifications, Drawings, Bill of Quantities and Rates quoted by the Contractor and other 
documents forming part of the contract, the following shall prevail in order of precedence. 
 
3.4.1 Contract Agreement which includes NIT, Special Instructions to Tenderer, and Memorandum. 
3.4.2 Letter of Intent / detailed letter of Work Order  
3.4.3 Bill of Quantity / Schedule of Quantities 
3.4.4 APC, GPC 
3.4.5 Tender Drawings 
3.4.6 Condition of Contract (DGNP),  
3.4.7 Technical Specification (DGNP) 
3.4.8 IAFW  
3.4.9 
 MES  technical specifications & MES SSR latest edition  
3.4.10 
National Building Code (Latest Edition) 
3.4.11 
BIS specifications 

 

 
3.5.0 
TIME SCHEDULE & PROGRESS 


Page  24  of  63  
 

 

The contract period for completion of entire work under scope shall be  26 (Twenty Six) months 
from the “COMMENCEMENT OF CONTRACT PERIOD ” as specified. The contractor should 
complete pilling works including testing of piles as per scope of BOQ within above specified 
period. 

 
 
3.6.0 
COMMENCEMENT OF CONTRACT PERIOD 

 

The date of commencement of work shall be reckoned from the 10 th  day from the date of issue 
of Letter of Intent .  
 
3.7.0 
DEFECT LIABILITY PERIOD: 

 
The Clause No.17 of GPC stands Modified as under and shall be read as “Defect Liability 
Period” and the following clauses shall be read in conjunction with the Clause No.17 of GPC : 

 
The Contractor shall be responsible for the rectification of defects in the works for a period of 
12 Months  from the date completion certificate is issued by the Garrison Engineers- ATV 
 
The Bidder shall be responsible for all the Defects and deficiencies, except usual wear and 
tear in the Project or any Section thereof, till the expiry of a period mentioned above (the 
“Defects Liability Period”) 
 
In case of any requirements for critical/mandatory spares during the defects liability period, the 
Bidder shall supply the same for trouble free operation of the Plant during the Defect Liability 
Period. 
 
In general, the Bidder shall repair or rectify all Defects and deficiencies observed by EPI/ 
DGNP/GE during the Defects Liability Period within a period of 15 (fifteen) days from the date 
of notice issued by EPI/ DGNP/GE. However, on criticality of defects the time period of 
rectifying defects can be extended based on approval by EPI/DGNP/GE 

 
3.8.0 
SECURITY DEPOSIT CUM PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE 

 

The Clause No.18 of GPC stands good.  
 
3.8.1  The successful Bidder shall have to submit 5.0% (Five Point Zero Percentage)  of the contract 

value of the accepted tender within  21 days from the date of LOI.  If required, any extension of time 
beyond 21 days and upto 60 days may be granted by the Competent Authority. However a panel 
rate of interest @12% per annum shall be charged for the delay in submission of SDPG after 21 
(twenty one) days ie from 22 nd  day to the date of submission of SDPG but within 60 days after the 
date of issue of LOI. Further, if 60 th  day happens to be declared holiday in the concerned office of 
EPI, submission of SDPB can be accepted on the next working day. The SDPG shall be submitted 
in the form of Bank Guarantee (format enclosed) from any Nationalized bank/scheduled Bank 
/commercial bank or in the form of Insurance Surety Bonds or account payee Demand draft or Fixed 
deposit or online payment in an acceptable form. The SDPG shall be initially valid upto 90days after 
the end of Defect Liability period (DLP). In case , the time off or completion of work gets extended, 


Page  25  of  63  
 

the contractor shall get the validity of SDPG extended to cover such extended time for completion of 
work plus DLP plus 90 days. 

 
3.8.2 In case even after 60 days from the date of LOI, bidder fails to submit the SDPG of the requisite 

amount, LOI will stand withdrawn and EMD of the bidder shall be forfeited. 

 
3.8.3 This bank guarantee shall remain valid up to 90 (ninety) days after the end of defects liability period 
 

3.9.0 
RETENTION MONEY  

 

Following clauses shall be read in conjunction with  Clause no. 9 of GPC. 
 
3.9.1 Retention Money shall be deducted at 5% from each bill subject to the maximum of 5% of final 

contract price. 
3.9.2 The Retention Money shall be refunded to the Contractor after expiry of defects liability period 

(referred to in Clause No. 74) or on payment of the amount of the final bill whichever is later. Refund 
of Retention money GCC clause stands good. 
3.9.3 If the amount of Retention Money deduction in cash is more than Rs.10.00 lakhs (Rupees Ten lakhs 

only), the excess amount can be refunded to Contractor against submission of Bank Guarantee of 
equivalent amount from a Nationalised bank / Scheduled Bank in the prescribed proforma of 
Performance Guarantee of EPI 

 
3.10.0  SECURED ADVANCE:  Clause   stands deleted. NO secured advance shall be paid  

 
3.11.0  Mobilization Advance: 

 
Client condition of Mobilization stands good  
  
3.11.1  Mobilisation Advance: (a) Interest bearing mobilization advance for maximum 5% (Five percent) of 

contract sum shall be given to the Contractor if he/they so desires and on in specific written request, 
in two instalments, on production of a non-revocable Bank Guarantee (s), for the amount at least 
110% of the advance on an approved form from a Nationalised/ Scheduled Bank. The Bank 
Guarantee (s) shall indemnify the Government against non-refund of mobilization advance and also 
against default on Contractor’s part in performance of the Contract.  

 
3.11.2 The rate of interest shall be 12.0% per annum, simple interest. 

 
3.11.3 Recovery of mobilization   is amended below 

 
 
The 10% advance shall be repaid with percentage deductions from the interim payments 
certified by the Engineer under the Contract. Deductions shall commence in the next Interim 
Payment Certificate following that in which the total of all such payments to the contractor has 
reached not less than 15 percent of the Contract Price or 3 months from the date of payment of 
advance, whichever period concludes earlier, and shall be made at the rate of 15% of the 
amounts of all Interim Payment Certificates until such time as the advance has been repaid, 
subject to the condition that the entire advance shall be completely repaid prior to the last 
payment due. 


Page  26  of  63  
 

 

 
3.12.0  PAYMENT CONDITIONS: -  

 

The Clause No.4 and sub clauses 4.1, 4.2 of GPC shall be replaced as under:  
 
3.12.1 Interim bills in the form of monthly running bills prepared by the contractor in soft as well as Hard 

copies shall be based on the quantities executed and measured. 

 
3.12.2 Any deduction made towards, safety, ESHS, Quality issues etc. will be deducted from contractor on 

prorata basis. 

 
3.12.3 The Contractor shall become entitled for payment of RA bills / Final bill etc  duly certified by EIC of 

EPI. The Contractor shall have no claim on EPI in case the payments are delayed due to any 
reason whatsoever. 

 
3.13.0  METHOD OF MEASUREMENT 

 

Mode of measurement shall be as per relevant clauses of technical specification of this 
tender. In case the same is not available the relevant IS 1200 in conjunction with IS 3385 
shall be adopted. In case the same is also not available, the standard procedure adopted in 
CPWD shall be adopted. In case the same is not available in CPWD also, the 
measurement of the work done will be based on the mutual agreement between EPI/ 
DGNP/GE and contractor. In all the above cases, the interpretation of EPI / DGNP/GE will 
be final and binding to the contractor. 
 
3.13.1 The concrete quantity measured for other works shall be measured and paid compact volume as 

per client approved measurements.  
3.13.2 The wastage of concrete including, concrete pump, and ground loss and wastage due to 

whatsoever reason shall not be paid to contractor. Accordingly, the contractor has to quote his 
rates. 
3.13.3 The concrete compact volume only measured for payment. Wastage should be within the limit of 

MES/ CPWD standard 

Sl. 
No. 

Material
Allowable 

wastage 

(%) 

Recovery rate for excess 

consumption 

(Rs /KG) 
1 
RCC concrete 
  wastage 
of 
concrete 
including, 
concrete pump, and ground loss and 
wastage due to whatsoever reason  

3% to 5%
As per actual purchase cost 

plus 10% 

 

2 
PCC wastages 
wastage of concrete including, concrete 
pump, and ground loss and wastage 
due to whatsoever reason 

3% 
As per actual purchase cost 

plus 10% 

 

 
 
3.14.0  TAXES AND DUTIES: 

 


Page  27  of  63  
 

Clause No.3.0 of GPC shall be modified as  
 
3.14.1 The bidder/Contractor must be registered with GST and should have valid GSTIN number of the 

respective state of the project. 

 
3.14.2 The bidder/contractor must submit as an compliances of GST Act, the invoices in GST compliant 

format. 

 
3.14.3 Contractor’s price/rates shall be inclusive of GST and other taxes and cess. Contractor shall submit 

to EPI the GST compliant tax invoice/debit note/revised tax invoice on the basis of which EPI will 
claim the input tax credit in its return. Since this is a works contract, the GST rate shall be as 
applicable presently. 

 
3.14.4 GST charged in the tax invoice/debit note/revised tax invoice by the contractor shall be released 

separately to the contractor only after contractor files the outward supply details in GSTR-1 on 
GSTN portal and input tax credit of such invoice is matched with time of filing the monthly return. 
TDS under GST shall be deducted at prevailing rates on gross invoice value from the running bills). 

 
3.14.5 Labourcess / LWF- Labour welfare fund shall be deposited by EPI @ 1% of value of work done or 

as applicable from to time as per the directions of Government of Andhra Pradesh by EPI. However, 
all the documentations and labour records shall be maintained properly by the contractor. It shall be 
produced to EPI / DGNP/ Govt Authorities as and when is required. 

 
3.14.6 Seigniorage/Royalty Charges: The rate quoted by bidder shall be inclusive of all royalty / 

signorages. If any royalty/ fee is payable to local authority, such royalty/ fee shall also be borne by 
the Contractor. Disposal shall be carried out strictly as per the regulations of local authority. 
However, the above materials shall not be removed out of Site premises without prior written 
authorization of the Project Manager. 

 
3.14.7 The contractor shall keep necessary books of accounts and other documents for the purpose of this 

condition as may be necessary and shall allow inspection of the same by a duly authorized 
representative of EPI and shall also furnish such other information/document as EPI may require 
from time to time. 

 
3.14.8 The contractor shall keep necessary books of accounts and other documents for the purpose of this 

condition as may be necessary and shall allow inspection of the same by a duly authorized 
representative of EPI and shall also furnish such other information/document as EPI may require 
from time to time. 

 
3.14.9 In case of any reduction in rate of taxes in future or the project getting exemption status prior to the 

last date of Bid submission or afterwards, the contractor shall pass on the benefit to EPIL 
immediately, failing which EPIL shall have the right to recover the differential amount from the 
amounts due to the contractor. Further in case of any increase in rate of taxes in future or the 
project losing exemption status prior to last date of bid submission or afterwards, the said increase 
of taxes shall be paid / reimbursed to the contractor, subject to the conditions that the client 
reimburses the said increased taxes to EPIL. 
 
 
3.15.0  GPC CLAUSE OF 5, 10, 11,  20, 21 & 22 STANDS GOOD. 


Page  28  of  63  
 

 
3.16.0  INSURANCE 

 

 
The following shall be also read in conjunction with GCC clause no. 05   
 
3.16.1 EPI shall take Contractor All Risks (CAR) policy, THIRD PARTY INSURANCE, marine cargo policy 

and Capital Plant and Machinery Policy for the whole project. THE CONTRACTOR shall assist EPI 
in follow up with insurance company in case of any claim related to CONTRACTOR’s scope of 
work. The Expenditure towards the insurance premium will be deducted from contractor running bill 
on prorata basis for corresponding work order value. EPI is not liable to pay any claim of the 
CONTRACTOR if it is not paid by insurance company due to any reasons whatsoever. 

 
3.16.2 Workmen’s Compensation Policy:-GPC clause no. 05 is modified as here under Contractor has to 

obtain workmen compensation Policy for the scope of work till completion of project. If the bidders 
does not submit the policy within One month from site handing over, EPI will avail the policy and 
expenditure towards the same will be deducted from the bidder with EPI overheads of 10% 

 
3.16.3 All men, materials, machinery, tools and plants, infra-structure, resources etc., as required for 

execution of “Works” shall be provided and arranged by CONTRACTOR for their portion of work. 
The amount/rate quoted in their offer by CONTRACTOR to EPI includes all charges, all direct and 
indirect cost of works, materials, labour, plant & equipment, all taxes , duties, levies, royalties, and 
labour welfare cess etc., all transportation charges including for cartage of issue material, electricity 
and water charges, site   offices expenses, labour camp, bank guarantee charges, insurance 
charges( upto any port of India for imported materials only) , EPF/CPF/ Statutory contributions, 
preparation of all required design & detailed engineering and all required drawings etc., other 
expenses whatsoever, incurred on execution, completion and maintenance of the “Works” as per 
‘Tender Documents’ and their own overheads and profit etc. CONTRACTOR shall comply with all 
the requirements laid down as per ‘Tender Documents’ as per terms, conditions, specifications, 
drawings, documents etc. given in the ‘Tender Documents’ for the completion, handing over, 
maintenance period etc. for the project. The contractor will not be allowed to take out equipment’s 
from the site without the written permission of DGNP/EPI.  

 
3.16.4 The contractor has to adhere to follow Environmental, Social, Health and Safety (ESHS), COVID-19 

Manual, further guidelines released by Govt. time to time., etc. The rate quoted by the contractor is 
inclusive of constructing temporary approach road to site, Compliance of Environmental, Social, 
Health and Safety (ESHS), COVID -19 Guidelines, etc.as required for completion of work. Non 
conformity of Environmental, Social, Health Safety (ESHS), etc., will be viewed seriously and the 
EPI has rights to impose fines on the contractor as per (ESHS), manuals of EPI / IS codes. 

 
3.16.5 The Contractor has to submit method statements before starting of the execution of works for 

approval of EPI / DGNP and same approved.  

 
3.17.0  PRICE VARIATION: 

 

Clause No.3.0 of GPC shall be modified as below 
 
3.17.1 For first one year period 


Page  29  of  63  
 

 
No escalation / price variation clause shall be applicable on this contract. All rates as per Bill of 
Quantities (BOQ)/Price-Bid quoted by Contractor shall be firm and fixed for entire contract 
period as well as extended period for completion of the works. No claim on account of any Price 
Variation / Escalation on whatsoever ground shall be entertained at any stage of works. 
 
3.17.2 For the period beyond one year 

 
The contractors / supplier are eligible for price variation as per DGNP price variation clause.no 
43.0 (: (Refer condition 63 of the General Conditions of Contracts IAFW-2249))  
 
The base rate of cement will be considered as per CPWD for the month previous to this tender 
is called. 
 
Further there is no variation paid towards sand / M Sand / aggregates during the entire period 
of contract. 
 
 
3.18.0  QUANTITY VARIATION: 

 
Following clauses shall be read in conjunction with  GPC   
 
3.18.1 The quantities given in the contract are tentative and may change to any extent (both in plus side 

and minus side). The quoted rates for individual items shall remain firm irrespective of any 
variations in the individual quantities. 
3.18.2  EPI reserves the right to delete any item after awarding the work due to design change / soil 

condition changes. 
 
3.18.3 No compensation becomes payable in case the variation of the final executed contract value is 

within the limit of plus / Minus (+/-) 20% Twenty Percentage) of awarded contract value. 
 
3.18.4 But, if client approves rate revision towards quantity variation the same shall be passed on to 

contractor by deducting EPI tender margin for the particular package subjected to approval by EPI. 

 
3.19.0  PAYMENT AGAINST EXTRA / SUPPLIEMENTARY ITEMS: 

 
 
Following clauses shall be read in conjunction with  Clause no 3.0 of GPC  
 
 
3.19.1 No extra items shall be executed unless and until written instructions are issued by the project 

manager. Any extra item (including variation in specifications of listed item) executed by the 
contractor without the permission in writing shall not be payable. In case of extra items, contractor 
shall furnish detailed breakup of the rate of extra item with supporting documents with detailed cost 
break up duly signed by construction manager, which shall be got approved from the project 
manager. 

 
3.19.2 Detailed cost breakup shall include basic cost of work, calculated as per market rates (material + 

labour + transport + equipment +wastage = total + overheads and profit upto 10% extra on total+ 
applicable taxes / duties). 


Page  30  of  63  
 

 
3.19.3 Once EPI receives the approval and corresponding payment from client, the same shall be passed 

on to contractor as per above clause. 
 

 
3.20.0  General 

 
3.20.1 The Ready mix concrete through RMC Agency / Contractor / Vendor has to install dedicated at his 

own RMC location outside the project site till completion period or extended contract period 
exclusively for the use of said Project (WP07 & WP5B) at Rambilli project only.  

 
3.20.2 Land for installation of batching plant and material yard shall be provided within the site premises 

after approval of Client or Consultant. In case, due to any reason land could not available for the 
same purpose. In such case, contractor should arrange himself for the same purpose no claims 
shall be entertained in this regard. 

 
3.20.3 Contractor has to install dedicated silos at batching plant location. The contractor / vendor has to 

stack adequate quantity of Cement, Course and Fine aggregates, Admixtures, Fuel, etc. for at least 
15 days requirement. 
 

 
3.20.4 The Design mix for M40 for all structural works with minimum cement content 400 kg / cum for 

super structure and   for pilling work with minimum 400 Kg / cum has to be submitted by contractor / 
vendor from approved third party laboratory by client / consultant. For preparation of such design 
mixes, material shall be jointly collected by contractor / vendor and EPI, Client / Consultant. If any 
additional cement required for achieve the designated strength of concrete, the contractor shall not 
be paid extra cost towards additional cement. Accordingly, contractor has to quote the rates. 
 
 
3.20.5 When the contractor opts for using PPC in the work, GE can allow incorporation of PPC subject to 

following:- 

 [a] GE is required to ensure that PPC meets the strength criteria of 43 Grade OPC as laid 
down in IS – 1812.  
[b] The minimum period before striking formwork given in clause 11.3.1 of IS – 456 is to be 
suitably modified at sites by the GE. 
 [c] The contractor shall give an undertaking that he shall not claim anything extra 
whatsoever on account of extra time for stripping form work etc while using PPC in lieu of 
OPC. 
 [d] In cold climate regions where temperature is lower than 15˚C and important structures 
like Over Head Reservoirs, Under Ground Sumps and Buildings with spans 10m or more 
only OPC shall be used. 
 [e] Mixing of OPC and PPC shall not be allowed in work except for plaster and mortar. 
 [f] While procuring PPC the following requirements are to be ensured and certificate to that 
effect shall be obtained for each batch from the manufacturers. 
 [i] The quality of fly ash is strictly as per IS – 1489 [Part – I].  
[ii] Fly ash is inter-ground with clinker not mixed with clinker. 
 [iii] Dry fly ash is transported in closed containers and stored in silos. 
 [iv] Only pneumatic pumping has been used.  


Page  31  of  63  
 

[v] The fly ash received from thermal power plants using high temperature combustion above 
1000˚C has been used.  
 
3.20.6 The Contractor / Vendor have to co-ordinate with other Civil contractors and pilling contractors, EPI 

and Client / Consultant for smooth progress of work. 

 
3.20.7 The Contractor / vendor have to provide approach road for movement of Transit mixtures or 

Concrete pumps, etc. at site, in case required. No claim shall be permitted in this regard. 
 
3.20.8 In case break down of any machinery contractor / vendor has to arrange alternate or standby 

machinery immediately at this own cost. No claims shall be permitted in this regard. If any 
expenditure / claims incurred by EPI due to break down of machinery shall be recovered from 
contractor / vendor bills. 
 
3.20.9 The contractor has to produce of concrete for small quantities, if necessary at site. Hence, there is 

no minimum quantity of order.. 
 
3.20.10 
The cement so brought shall be fresh and in no case older than 60 days from the date of 
manufacture. 
 
3.20.11 
If due to some unforeseen circumstances which are beyond the control of the contractor, cement 
is not used within 03 months, the same shall be retested and shall be used in the work only after 
taking prior approval of Accepting Officer. Permission to use cement more than 03 months old 
shall be given only in exceptional cases where Accepting Officer is satisfied with the grounds put 
up by the contractor and cement still meets all the requirements of IS. No claim whatsoever shall 
be entertained if permission to use cement more than 3 months old is not given to contractor. 
 
3.20.12 
Contractor has to arrange the M-sand, SAND , Aggregate , boulders at his own cost. Suppose 
EPI purchased and issued to contractor and the following shall be apply 
 
 

Sl. 
No. 

Material
Allowable 

wastage 

(%) 

Recovery rate for 
excess consumption 

(Rs /KG) 
1 
Sand ( M Sand and River sand) 
8% to 12%
As per actual purchase 

cost plus 10% 

 
2 
Coarse Aggregates 
 

5% to 8% 
As per actual purchase 

cost plus 10% 

 
3 
Admixture 
As per 
Product 

As per actual purchase 

cost plus 10% 

 
 
 
3.21.0  Approved make of Cement:  

 
i. 
The Associated Cement Companies Ltd. Brand: “ACC” 414-421, Splendor Forum (4th 
Floor), 3, District Centre, Jasola, New Delhi-110044, Ph-011-46583600 


Page  32  of  63  
 

ii. 
 ii. Ultra Tech Cement Ltd Brand: “ULTRATECH” ‘B’ Wing , 2nd Floor, Mahakali Caves 
Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai-400093, Ph-022-66917800  
iii. 
 The India Cement Dhun Building, 827, Anna Salai, Chennai-600002  
iv. 
 Dalmia Cement (Bharat)Ltd Brand: “DALMIA INFRA PRO” Dalmiapuram, Distt- 
Truchirappalli, Tamil Nadu621651  
v. 
Century Cements Brand: “CENTURY” Industry House, 159, Church gate, Reclamation, 
Mumbai – 400020, Ph-022 22023936  
vi. 
 Saurashtra Cement Brand: “SAURASHTRA” Gala No A-1, Ground Floor, Udhyog Sadan 
No 3 MIDC, Central Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai-400093 Ph-022 32955557/67, Mo-
9320290081  
vii. 
The Ramco Cements Ltd. (Formerly Madras cement) Brand: “RAMCO” Auras Corporate 
Centre , 98-A Dr. Radhakrishnan Salai, Mylapore, Chennai-600004, Ph-044 28478666   
viii. 
 Mangalam Cement Ltd Brand: “MANGALAM” PO Adityanagar, Morak, Dist-Kota, 
Rajasthan-326520 Ph- 9351468076   
ix. 
 Birla Corporation Ltd Brand: “BIRLA” Birla Building (3rd & 4th Floor) 9/1, R.N Mukherjee 
Road Kolkata-700001, Ph-033 30573700   
x. 
Orient Cement Brand: “ORIENT” 5-9-22/57/D, 2nd and 3rd Floor, GP Birla Centre, 
Adarsh Nagar, Hyderabad -500063, Pin-044 23688600  
xi. 
 Nuvoco Vistas Corporation Ltd (Formerly Lafarge Cement) Brand: “NUVOCO” Equinox 
Business Park Tower-3, East Wing, 4th Floor LBS Marg, Kurla (West), Kurla Mumbai, 
Maharashtra400070   
xii. 
Shree Cement Brand: ”SHREE” Bangur Nagar, Beawar, Dist-Ajmer, Rajasthan305901, 
Ph-01462228101-06  
xiii. 
. J K Cement Brand: ”JK” Kamla Tower, Kanpur – 208001  
xiv. 
 J K Lakshmi Cement Ltd Brand: ”JK LAKSHMI” Jaykaypuram, Dist-Sirohi, Rajasthan -
307019, Ph – 02971-244409/10   
xv. 
 Jaypee Rewa Cement Brand: ”JAYPEE” Jaypee Nagar, Rewa-486450, MP  
xvi. 
 Ambuja Cement Ltd Brand: ”AMBUJA” Kodinar, PO-Ambujanagar, Taluka – Kodinar, 
Dist – Junagadh, Gujarat -362715 Ph 02795-237000  
xvii. 
 My Home Industries Ltd Brand: ”MAHA CEMENT” 9 th floor, Block -3, My Home Hub, 
Madhapur, Hydrabad – 500081, Ph 040- 44119100/200  
xviii.   JSW Cement Ltd, AP Brand: ”JSW PSC” JSW Centre, Opp MIMRDA Ground, Bandra 

Kurla Complex, Bandra [East] Mumbai – 40005  
xix. 
 Sagar Cements Ltd Brand: ”SAGAR” Plot No. 111, Road No. 10, Jubilee Hills, Hydrabad 
– 500 033 Ph : 040 – 23351571  
 
Note:  
 
At present the design mix is approved with “Sagar Cements” , EPI will supply the cement on 
chargeable basis , if the plant supplier wants to change he cement , the same shall be intimated to EPI 
and  EPI will purchase and handed over to the batching plant operator. 
 
Further, the contractors have to take undertaking for getting approval of design mix whenever the 
source of cement / brand of cement / source of aggregates will be changed  
 
3.22.0  RISK PURCHASE OF RMC 

 
CLAUSE NO 14 OF GPC STANDS MODIFED AS FOLLOWS (  REFER FOLLOWING CLSUE 
NO 3.23.0, 3.24.0) 
 
3.23.0  Ready-mix Concrete: 

 


Page  33  of  63  
 

3.23.1 
EPI will produce the concrete request 24 hours before the commencement of concrete. If the 
contractor failed to supply the concrete. EPI will pucharse the RMC from Client approved 
suppliers and the expenditure will be booked and risk purchase. The Deduction will be done 
as per actual purchase cost plus 10% in the running bill submitted by the contractor. 
 

[i] M/s. RMC Ready Mix India Pvt. Ltd. 
[ii] M/s. Associated Cement Co Ltd 
[iii] M/s. Birla Ltd 
[iv] M/s LAFARGE Aggregates & Concrete Pvt Ltd, Visakhapatnam 
[v] M/s. Ultratec Concrete / Lafarge A & C 
[vi] M/s. Vipasana Concrete, Visakhapatnam 
[vii] M/s. Sarvani RMC, Visakhapatnam 
 
3.23.2 
If the contractor delayed the pouring of concrete beyond the initial setting time/ 2 hours, idle 
charges and running cost for Concrete pump and transit mixer shall be deducted from 
contractor running bill as per EIC direction. 
3.23.3 
EPI is not responsible for any delay due to breakdown of Batching plant, Machinery and any 
interrupted power supply. No claim shall be made by the contractor in this regard. 
 
3.23.4 
After production of concrete from batching plant as per the pour card , The work rejected due 
to any reason like bad workmanship, improper shuttering work, weather action etc. shall be 
deducted from contractor running bill as per EIC direction 

 
3.24.0  OTHER IMPORTANT POINTS  

   
3.24.1 CIVIL  & ALLIED  WORKS FOR INSTALLATION BATCHING PLANT 

 
3.24.1.1 
The contractor has to execute all the civil and structural works related to installation of QA/QC 
lab at his own cost without any additional cost to EPI 
3.24.1.2 
The works like excavation, curing tank, QC lab etc are under the scope of the contractor. 
3.24.1.3 
The contractor has to demolish and dispose the unused materials at the time of completion of 
this contract. The contractor has to clean the area up to the satisfactory level of EPI/ DGNP. 

 
3.24.2  WATER & ELECTRICITY –   

 

 
3.24.2.1 
The contractor shall note that, EPI applied for electricity local authority and in the meantime 
contractor has to arrange own / rental DG set for construction power as well as for office 
purpose. 
 
3.24.2.2 
The contractor shall note that water will be issued at one source on chargeable basis and 
contractor has to make own arrangement for transporting& storage of water  

 
 
3.25.0  COMPENSATION FOR DELAY :  

 

Clause no. 13.0 of GPC stands good. 


Page  34  of  63  
 

 
3.26.0  CANCELLATION / DETERMINATION OF CONTRACT IN FULL OR PART 

 
Clause no. 13.0 of GPC stands good. 
 
Further, if the client instructed to provide dedicated batching plant at site. The supplier has to 
arrange minimum 30 cum / hr batching plant at site without any additional cost to EPI. 
 
3.27.0  CONTRACTOR LIABLE TO PAY COMPENSATION EVEN IF ACTION NOT TAKEN 

 
Clause no. 13.0 of GPC stands good. 
 
 
3.28.0  TIME ESSENCE OF CONTRACT & EXTENSION FOR DELAY 

 
Clause no. 13.0 of GPC stands good. 
 
3.29.0  Contractor has to submit the schedules of deliverables including material procurement plan for 

EPI/DGNP approval. In the event of failure of contractor to adhere to approved procurement 
schedule. EPI shall purchase the required material on behalf of contractor with its own cost and 
the cost of procurement including freight, loading, unloading plus EPI overhead charges @10% of 
the landed cost of material at site shall be debited from contractor with any payable amount or 
from subsequent RA bill.  

 
3.30.0  The CONTRACTOR shall be fully responsible to complete the “Works” in workmen like manner to 

the satisfaction of DGNP and EPI by maintaining high standard of quality and precision as per 
‘Tender documents’, Agreements, Terms & Conditions, Specifications, Drawings etc., within the 
contractual completion period and within their contract value. In case Owner reduces or increases 
scope of work related to CONTRACTOR’s portion of work, the same shall be binding on 
CONTRACTOR and the CONTRACTOR has to execute the same at rates paid by the Owner less 
EPI’s margin. 
 

3.31.0  Issues related to interpretation and claims, if any, related to CONTRACTOR’s scope of work, 

arising out of contract between EPI and DGNP shall be referred with full justification by 
CONTRACTOR to EPI for settlement with Owner including arbitration with Owner, if inescapable, 
and outcome of such a settlement shall be binding on CONTRACTOR. EPI at its option may 
associate the CONTRACTOR in the above process of settlement for CONTRACTOR’s portion of 
work. The cost & expenses on arbitration with DGNP/GE/Owner shall be shared by EPI and 
CONTRACTOR in proportion of CONTRACTOR’s contract price and EPI's margin towards its 
overheads & profits. In case the award/settlement with the Owner is in favour of EPI, ninety 
percent of the award/settlement amount shall be shared between EPI and CONTRACTOR in 
proportion of CONTRACTOR’s contract price with EPI and EPI's MARGIN towards its overheads 
& profits. The balance ten percent of the award/settlement amount shall be retained by EPI 
towards its administrative charges. In case the award/settlement is against EPI, the entire 
damages/counterclaims imposed, if any, shall be borne by CONTRACTOR alone and the 
CONTRACTOR shall have no claim whatsoever against, EPI in such a settlement. Further, EPI 
shall have no liability towards any claim of the CONTRACTOR, which is not paid by the 
DGNP/GE/Owner. 

 


Page  35  of  63  
 

3.32.0  COMPLETION AND TAKING OVER 

As soon as the project is finally completed, the Contractor shall inform EPI and EPI shall in 
turn inform to DGNP/GE/Owner. DGNP shall nominate a Board of Officers for checking/ 
verification of completed work as per the scope of work for final taking over the project. 
 
3.33.0  A final certificate of rectification of all defects pointed out by the handing over taking over board 

shall be obtained by party 

 
3.34.0  FINAL  BILL:  The final bill will be submitted by the contractor within 90 days from the date of 

acceptance of completion of work accompanied by the following documents: 
3.34.1 Completion certificate (or) Final Acceptance Certificate issued by the EPI / DGNP/ GE 

specifying the handing over of the work including list of inventories (fittings & fixtures). 
3.34.2 No claim certificate by the contactor. 
3.34.3 Duly approved by the DGNP/ GE ‘As built’ drawings in required sets. 
3.34.4 Certified measurements. 
3.34.5 All statutory approvals from various state / central govt. local bodies, if required for completion 

& handing over of the work as included in scope of Contractor. 
3.34.6 Manufacture’s guarantee of various machines / equipment’s installed as part of works. 

 
3.35.0  DRAWINGS: 

 
3.35.1 The detailed drawings, specifications available with EPI and same will be made available to the 

contractor during execution of work at site.  

 
3.36.0  TECHNICAL STAFF FOR WORK:  

 The clause is operated only if the RMC supplier is installed the Plant at site . Following 
Technical staff is required  to be deployed   
 

Requirement of Technical Staff
Minimum 
experience 

( Ye a rs)  

Rate of Recovery
Qualification 
Number 

Project Manager – Any Engineer 
1 

 
 

07 
Rs. 75,000/- per 

Month 

Jr Engineer -Civil  
 QC engineer 

2 

 
 

05 
Rs. 45,000/- per 

Month 

 
Note : i) Man power/Resources need to be increased by Contractor as and when required by 

project. 
(ii) Site supervisor/ Foremen/ Safety Stewards to be deployed as and when required at 

site. 
 
3.37.0  FURNISHED OFFICE ACCOMMODATION & MOBILITY AND COMMUNICATION  TO BE 

PROVIDED BY CONTRACTOR TO EPI:  
3.37.1 The following clause is mandatory for  the supplier who installed the plant at site or outside of 

site campus. 


Page  36  of  63  
 

 
 
Sl. No.
Description of items
Unit
Amount (Rs.)
Rate of 
recovery  
1 
Office furniture 
LS 
1,50,000/- 
1,50,000/- 
2 
Printing 
cartridge 
and 
office 
stationary 

LS 
5,000/- / Month 
5,000/- / Month 

3 
Office boy/ cook 
2  nos 
 
15,000/-  
PERMonth 

4 
STORE KEEPER 
2 nos 
 
15,000/-  PER 
Month 
5 
QC lab  
200 sqm 
 
Rs. 2,00,000.00 

6 
Curing tank 
LS 
 
As actual 

 
3.37.2 Incase of urgency, EPI shall procure the same and the expenditure shall be recovered after 

placing the work order on contractor from RA bills. 

 
3.38.0  LABOUR CAMP: 

VOID 
 
3.39.0  LABOUR SAFETY PROVISION:  

The clause is operated only if the RMC supplier is installed the Plant at site . 
Clause no 22.0 of GCC stands good and in addition to that the following shall be applicable 
 
3.39.1 
The contractor has to adhere to follow Environmental, Social, Health and Safety (ESHS), 
COVID-19 Manual, etc. The rate quoted by the contractor is inclusive of constructing 
temporary approach road to site, Compliance of Environmental, Social, Health and Safety 
(ESHS), COVID -19 Guidelines, etc.as required for completion of work. Non conformity of 
Environmental, Social, Health Safety (ESHS), etc., will be viewed seriously and the EPI has 
rights to impose fines on the contractor as per (ESHS), manuals of EPI / IS codes.  

 
3.40.0  TESTS AND INSPECTION: 

The supplier has to conduct the testing as per DGNP/ GE request and asper IS codes. 
 
 
3.41.0  BLASTING:  

 

NA 
 
 
3.42.0  GATE PASS AND PERMITS:   


Page  37  of  63  
 

Client condition of gate passes for entry as follows 
 
3.42.1 
Photo passes will be issued to the contractor, his agent, employees, representative and work 
people etc. The contractor shall get the antecedents of the people likely to be employed by 
him verified from Civil Police and the police verification report shall be enclosed with the 
application requesting for issue of passes. The application for issue of passes shall contain 
the information like name and address of the person likely to be employed, Contract 
Agreement Number, date of commencement and completion. The application must have 
endorsement of concerned Garrison Engineer. The passes issued initially will be valid for 
one month and thereafter renewed for every three months. The contractor shall apply for 
issue of passes well in advance. The passes will be issued on payment of Rs 5/- each. In 
case of loss of pass, a fine of Rs 1000/- for each pass lost will be charged for the first loss. 
Rs2500/- for the second loss and Rs 3500/- for the third & pass will not be reissued. The 
contractor shall return any specific / all the passes issued to him on completion of the work 
or at any time on demand by the department. The contractor shall be responsible for the 
conduct and actions of his workmen, agents & representatives.  

 
3.42.2 
The contractor, his agents, representative, workmen, etc and his materials, carts, trucks or 
other means of transport, etc, will be allowed to enter through and leave from only such gate 
or gates and at such times as the GE`s or authorities in-charge of the restricted areas may at 
their sole discretion permit to be used. The contractor’s 37uthorized representative is 
required to be present at the place of entry and exit for the purpose of identifying his carts, 
trucks, etc to the personnel in-charge of the security of restricted area 
 

 
 
3.42.3 
Contractor shall provide / construct a separate gate as directed by GE and users for entry of 
his labour. A shed as required at entry point shall also be provided / constructed by 
contractor. A separate entry shall be created for entry of materials / vehicles / Equipment’s 
etc., at the location as directed by Engineer-in-Charge. 

 
3.43.0  TOOLS AND PLANTS / MONITORING AND MEASURING EQUIPMENT (MMEs) 

 
The clause is operated only if the RMC supplier is installed the Plant at site . 
 
The minimum requirement of Plant and Machineries are mentioned below, however bidder should 
deploy all necessary plant and machineries required to complete the work without any extra cost to 
PEI. 

S. 
No. 

Name of Plant & Machinery /  Equipment 
Quantity 

1 
Concrete Batching plant Minimum capacity of 25 cum/hr. 
1 No. 
2 
Cement silos 
2 x 100 MT 
3 
Transit mixtures 6 cum capacity  
3 Nos 
4 
Concrete pump 35 cum / hr. Capacity 
1No.+1Standy
5 
JCB / Loader  
1 No. 
6 
DG Set 33kVA with fuel etc. 
1No.+1Standy
7 
QC lab 
As required 
8 
Cement storage shed  
200 Sqm 
 


Page  38  of  63  
 

3.44.0  DISQUALIFICATION: 

 
The tenderers may note that they are liable to be disqualified and not considered for the 
opening of Price Bid if;  
 
a)  
Representation in the forms, statements and attachments submitted in the pre- 
qualification document are proved to be incorrect, false and misleading.  
b)  
They have record of poor performance during the past 10 (ten) years such as 
abandoning the work, rescinding of contract for which the reasons are attributable to the 
non-performance of the contractor, inordinate delay in completion, consistent history of 
litigation / arbitration awarded against the contractor or any of its constituents or financial 
failures due to bankruptcy etc. in their ongoing / past projects.  
c)  
They have submitted incompletely filled in formats without attaching certified 
supporting documents and credentials to establish their eligibility to participate in the 
Tender.  
d)  
If the tenderers attempt to influence any member of the selection committee.  
EPI reserves its right to take appropriate action including disqualification of tenderer(s) as 
may be deemed fit and proper by EPI at any time without giving any notice to the contractor 
in this regard. The decision of EPI in the matter of disqualification shall be final and binding 
on the Tenderers.  
 
3.45.0  TERMINATION: 

 

EPI GCC clause no  72.2  stands good 
 
3.46.0  FORCE MAJEURE CLAUSE: 

 
 
EPI GCC clause no   72.2   stands good 
 
3.47.0  CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION: 
 

General Conditions of Contract (GCC) Sub Clause no.76.1 and 76.3 of Arbitration Clause no.76.0 are 

amended as given below. Sub Clause no.76.2 will remain unchanged. 
 

3.47.1 
Conciliation and Arbitration:  

Before resorting to arbitration as per the clause given below, the parties if they so agree 
may explore the possibility of conciliation as per the provisions of Part III of the 
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 as amended by Arbitration and Conciliation 
(Amendment) Act, 2015. When such conciliation has failed, the parties shall adopt the 
following procedure for arbitration: 
 
3.47.2 
Except   where otherwise provided for in the contract, any disputes and differences relating to 
the meaning of the Specifications, Design, Drawing and Instructions herein before 
mentioned and as to the quality of workmanship or materials used in the work or as to any 
other questions, claim, right, matter or things whatsoever in any way arising out of or relating 
to the Contract, Designs, Drawings, Specifications, Estimates, Instructions, or these 
conditions or otherwise concerning the works of the execution or failure to execute the same 
whether arising during the progress of the work or after the completion or abandonment 
thereof shall be referred to the Sole Arbitrator  mutually agreed and appointed by both the  


Page  39  of  63  
 

parties as per the provisions of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 2015 or any statutory 
modification or re-enactment thereof and the rules made thereunder.  The person 
approached for appointment as Arbitrator shall disclose in writing circumstances, in terms of 
Sub-Section (1) of Section (12) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 as amended by 
Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 as follows: 

 
 

(i) such as the existence either direct or indirect, of any past or present relationship with or 

interest in any of the parties or in relation to the subject-matter in dispute, whether 
financial, business, professional or other kind, which is likely to give rise to justifiable 
doubts as to his independence or impartiality; and 
 
(ii) which are likely to affect his ability to devote sufficient time to the arbitration and in 

particular his ability to complete the entire arbitration within a period of twelve months. 
 
3.47.3 
The Arbitrator shall be appointed within 30 days of the receipt of letter of invocation of 
arbitration duly satisfying the requirements of this clause.  

 
a) If the arbitrator so appointed resigns or is unable or unwilling to act due to any reason 

whatsoever, or dies, the  parties may mutually  appoint a new arbitrator in accordance 
with these terms and conditions of the contract, to act in his place and the new arbitrator 
so appointed may proceed from the stage at which it was left by his predecessor. 
 
b) It is a term of the contract that the party invoking the arbitration shall specify the dispute/ 

differences or questions to be referred to the Arbitrator under this clause together with 
the amounts claimed in respect of each dispute. 
 
c) The Arbitrator may proceed with the arbitration ex-parte, if either party, in spite of a 

notice from the arbitrator, fails to take part in the proceedings. 
 
d) The work under the contract shall continue as directed by the Engineer-In-Charge of 

EPI, during the arbitration proceedings. 
 
e) Unless otherwise agreed, the venue of arbitration proceedings shall be at the venue 

given in the ‘Memorandum’ to the ‘Form of Tender”. 
 
f) The award of the Arbitrator shall be final, conclusive and binding on both the parties. 

 
g) Subject to the aforesaid, the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 as 

amended by Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 or any statutory 
modifications or re-enactment thereof and the Rules made there under and for the time 
being in force shall apply to the arbitration proceedings and Arbitrator shall publish his 
Award accordingly. 
 
 
 
3.48.0  JURISDICTION : 

Clause no.76.3 are amended as under,  

3.48.1 
The courts in Chennai alone will have jurisdiction to deal with matters arising from the 
contract. 


Page  40  of  63  
 

 
3.49.0  MAKE IN INDIA: 

 
Contractors to use as much as possible, the material/service from MSEs & Local 
suppliers/Manufacturers for promotion of Make in India 
 
3.49.1 
For Promotion of Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) order 2017 (amended 
on28.05.2018) GOI Guideline for procurement, the equivalent Indian makes of materials 
conforming to requisite quality in addition to List of Makes/Brands may be considered subject 
to approval of DGNP/GE/EPI Engineer In charge. Also “local supplier\bidder at the timeof 
tendering, bidding or solicitation shall be required to provide self-certification in his letterhead 
that the item offered meets the minimum local content and shall give the details of the 
location(s) at which the local value addition is made”. 

 
Bidder to comply with Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure, Public 
Procurement Division Circular No. F.No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 
 
 
3.50.0  PF & ESI CONTRIBUTION & RETURNS: 

 
3.50.1 
Contractor shall submit a copy of latest PF& ESI returns and inspection reports from 
statutory authorities along with a copy of challans for having deposited PF & ESI 
contributions every month. 
3.50.2 
PF & ESI Rate of interest and share contribution of employee and employer shall be as per 
Government of India latest Guidelines. 
3.50.3 
Contractor shall fully comply all other formalities as per the PF & ESI statutory provisions 
and submit a copy of the same for replying to Statutory authorities in case of any complaints. 
3.50.4 
It is the responsibility of contractor to undertake necessary care and make arrangement for 
transportation and treatment of his employee at ESI Hospital or any tie up hospitals of ESIC. 
3.50.5 
Contractor should assist and guide his employees for claiming lawful benefits from ESI. 

 
 
 
 

SIGNATURE OF THE CONTRACTOR WITH SEAL 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Page  41  of  63  
 

 
Addendum to ITT 

 
 
4.0 Mode of submission of tender is through e-Bids only.   
 
Kindly refer “Special instructions to Bidders for e-Tendering” for downloading & uploading of tender 
documents as per NIT. 
 
Tenderer shall submit duly stamped & signed scan copy of following documents online: 
 
a) Copy of Tender fee receipt and EMD payment. 

b) Power of Attorney / Letter of Authorization  (Notarized)  

c) 
Banker’s Certificate / Net worth Certificate (Annexure H)  

d) Details of similar works executed along with completion certificate & copy of Work order for 

qualification as per PQ criteria.  

e) LIST OF EXISTING COMMITMENT AND ON GOING WORKS.(Annexure–A) with (affidavit with 

Rs.100 stamp paper 
 
f) 
CA certified Turnover Certificate for “construction works” for  the last three years ending up to 
31.03.2023 with UDIN Number & CA Certified audited annual report/balance sheets and profit and 
loss accounts along with schedules for the last Five years ending up to 31.03.2023 with UDIN 
Number 
 
g) Copy of PAN Card Certificate  & GST Registration certificate 

h) Copy of PF & ESI Registration. 

i) 
List of Plant and Equipment’s available with bidder  

j) 
Details of manpower available with Bidder.  

k) 
Company ‘s Registration Certificate/Memorandum and Articles of Association/ Partnership Deed 

/Affidavit  

l) 
Form of Tender , Letter of Undertaking & Memorandum   (Should be in Bidders letter head) 

m) A notarized self-certification by bidder that “He has not been reprimanded in past 10 years for poor 

performance and also he has not been debarred by any of his client for unprofessional/ slow work 
leading to cancellation of his ongoing assignment”. 
 
n)  Form of Affidavit ( Annexure-VI) & integrity Pact in Stamp paper to be notarized 

o) Self-certification in respect of local content for Public Procurement (Preference to Make In India) 

order 2017 (amended on 28.05.2018) GOI Guideline as per clause no.2.0 of NIT .(Annexure-X)  

p) Self-certification in respect of follow the circular for Restrictions on Public Procurement from 

Certain countries by Ministry of Finance vide press note Posted On: 23 JUL 2020 10:14PM 
By PIB Delhi  (Refer NIT Clause 1.23 of NIT) 
 
q)   All Annexure from I to XVI   

 
 


Page  42  of  63  
 

 
Annexure-I  
5.0 Bidders Information  

Company Name*  
 

Registration Number* 
 

Registered Address* 
 

Name of Partners/Directors  
 

Bidder type*  
Indian/Foreign

 

City*  
 
State*  
 
Country*  
 
Postal code*  
 
PAN/TAN/GST Number*  
(PAN/TAN number must have 10 characters. 
e.g.AESTG2458A)  
For bidders who do not have PAN/TAN number may  
Enter TEMPZ9999 as the PAN/TAN number.  

Company’s Establishment year 
 

Company’s Nature of business*  
 

Company’s 
Legal 
Status* Limited 
company/ 
Undertaking /Joint  
Venture / Partnership/others

 

Company Category*  Micro unit as 
per DGNP/ Small unit as per 
DGNP/ Medium unit as per DGNP/ 
Ancillary unit / Project of affected 
person of this company / SSI / 
others  

 

Contact Details  
Enter Company’s Contact Person Details  
Title*  
Mr/Mrs/Dr/Shree/Ms  

 

Contact Name*  
 
Date of Birth*(DD/MM/YYYY)  
 

Correspondence Email*  
(Correspondence Email ID can be same as your Login 
ID. All The mail correspondence will be sent Only to the 
Correspondence Email ID.)  

Designation  
 
Phone*  
 

Mobile*  
 


Page  43  of  63  
 

Annexure-II  
 
 

6.0 BANKER DETAILS  

 

PANNO*  
 

GSTNO*  
 

ACTIVEBANKA/CDETAILS*  
 

A/CNO*  
 

A/CTYPE*  
 

BRANCHADDRESS*  
 

IFSC*  
 

 

*  Mandatory information (must be filled by the bidders)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Signature of the Tenderer 


Page  44  of  63  
 

Annexure-III 
 
 
 
 
 
FORM OF TENDER 
( TO BE SUBMITTED IN BIDDERS LETTER HEAD) 
 

To 
General Manager (Contracts), 
Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. 
3D, EC Chambers, 92 GN Chetty Road 
T.Nagar, Chennai – 600 017 
 

Sub:  Tender for  “ Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)  for the project Provision of 

Administrative and Logistic Infrastructure Under Wp-07 and Wp-5b At Naval Station 
Rambilli Visakhapatnam – package-01  
 

REF: SRO/CON/ETS/186 Dated:21.12.2023  
 
 
1. 
We hereby tender for execution of work as mentioned in “Memorandum” to this “Form of 
Tender” as per Tender Documents within the time schedule of completion of work as per 
separately signed and accepted rates in the Bill of Quantities quoted by us for the whole work 
in accordance with the Notice Inviting Tender, Conditions of Contract, Specifications of 
materials and workmanship, Bill of Quantities Drawings, Time Schedule for completion of jobs, 
and other documents and papers, all as detailed in Tender Documents.  
 
2. 
It is agreed that the time stipulated for jobs and completion of work in all respects and in 
different stages mentioned in the “Time Schedule for completion of jobs” and signed and 
accepted by us is the essence of the contract. We agree that in case of failure on my/our part 
to strictly observe the time of completion mentioned for jobs and the final completion of work 
in all respects according to the schedule set out in the said “Time schedule for completion of 
jobs” and stipulations contained in the contract, the recovery shall be made from us as 
specified therein. In exceptional circumstances extension of time which shall always be in 
writing may, however be granted by EPI at its entire discertain for some items, and We agree 
that such extension of time will not be counted for the final completion of work as stipulated in 
the said “Time schedule of completion of jobs”.  
 
3. 
We agree to pay the Earnest Money, Security Deposit cum Performance Guarantee, 
Retention Money and accept the terms and conditions as laid down in the “Memorandum” to 
this “Form of Tender”.  
 
4. 
Should this Tender be accepted, We agree to abide by and fulfill all terms and conditions 
referred to above and as conditioned in Tender Documents else where and in default thereof, 
allow EPI to forfeit and pay EPI, or its successors or its authorized nominees such sums of 
money as are stipulated in the Tender Documents.  
 
 
5. 
We hereby pay the earnest money amount as mentioned in the “Memorandum” tothis “Form 
of Tender” in favour of Engineering Projects (India) Limited payable at place as mentioned in 
the “NIT”.  


Page  45  of  63  
 

6. 
If we fail to commence the work within 10 days of the date of issue of Letter of intent and/or 
We fail to sign the agreement and/or We fail to submit Security Deposit cum Performance 
Guarantee, we agree that EPI shall, without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at 
liberty to cancel the Letter of Intent and to forfeit the said earnest money as specified above.  
 
7. 
We are also enclosing here with the Letter of Undertaking on the prescribed proforma as 
referred to in condition of NIT.  
 
 
 

Date the .................................... day of  
 
 
 
 
 

SIGNATUREOFTENDERER  
 
 
 

NAME(CAPITALLETTERS):  
 
 
 
 

OCCUPATION  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

ADDRESS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SEALOFTENDERER  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Page  46  of  63  
 

 
 
Annexure-IV  

8.0 MEMORANDUM  
 
Name of Project: Tender for Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)   for the project Provision of 
Administrative and Logistic Infrastructure Under Wp-07 and Wp-5b At Naval Station Rambilli 
Visakhapatnam – package-03  
 

NIT No.: SRO/CON/ETS/186Dated:21.12.2023  
 
 

S. N

O 

.

 

Description  

 

Cl.No.  
Values/Description to be applicable for 

relevant clause(s)  

i.
Name of work  
NIT  
Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)  for the
project Provision of Administrative and Logistic
Infrastructure Under Wp-07 and Wp-5b At Naval 
Station Rambilli Visakhapatnam – package-03 
ii.
Client  
NIT 
Director General Naval Projects, Visakhapatnam 

 
iii.
Type of Tender  
NIT 
Item Rate tender  
iv.
Earnest Money
Deposit  

NIT 
Rs.  40,00,000.00 
(Rupees Fourty Lakhs only)    

 
v.
Estimated Cost  
NIT 
33,00,00,000.00 

 (Rupees Thirty Crores only) including GST. 
Excluding labour cess 
vi.
Time 
for
Completion of 
work  

NIT 
26( twenty Six) Months from the 10

th   day of issue 
of LOI & Defect Liability Periods 12 months.  

vii.
Mobilization
Advance 
(Interest Bearing)

3.11.0 

APC 

Interest bearing mobilization advance for maximum 
5% (Five percent) of contract sum shall be given to 
the Contractor. 
Interest rate shall be – 12% - simple interest 
viii. Recovery of  

Mobilization 
Advance  

3.11.3 

APC 

The 10% advance shall be repaid with percentage 
deductions from the interim payments certified by 
the Engineer under the Contract. Deductions shall 
commence in the next Interim Payment Certificate 
following that in which the total of all such payments 
to the contractor has reached not less than 15 
percent of the Contract Price or 3 months from the 
date of payment of advance, whichever period 
concludes earlier, and shall be made at the rate of 
15% of the amounts of all Interim Payment 
Certificates until such time as the advance has been 
repaid, subject to the condition that the entire 
advance shall be completely repaid prior to the last 
payment due 
ix.
Schedule of 
Rates applicable  

69.0 of GCC
DSR2021 and prevailing Market Rate  


Page  47  of  63  
 

x.
Validity of Tender
1.25 of NIT 
90days from the last date of submission of Tender  

xi.
Security Deposit 
cum 
Performance 
Guarantee  

18.0 of GPC & 

3.8.0 of APC

The successful bidder shall have to submit SDPG
equitant to  5.0% (Five Point Zero Percentage)  of
the contract value of the accepted tender within 21
(twenty-one) days from the date of issue of Letter of
intent (LOl). lf required, any extension of time beyond
21 days and upto 60 days may be granted by the
Competent Authority. However, a penal rate of
interest @ 12% per annum shall be charged for the 
&lay in submission of SDPG after 21 (twenty one)
days i.e. from 22 nd  day to the date of submission of 
SDPG but within 60 days after the date of issue of 
LOl. Further, if 60 th  day happens to be declared
holiday in the concerned office of EPl, submission of 
SDPG can be accepted on the next working day.  

xii.
Retention Money  
9.0 of GPC 
& 3.9.0 of APC

5% (Five percent only) of Basic contract value 
which shall be deducted from each RA Bill. The 
retention money shall be released after expiry of 
defect liability period.  
xiii.
Time allowed for 
starting the work  

43.0 of GCC
10(Ten) days from the date of issue of LOI.  

xiv.
Defect Liability 
Period  

74.0 of GCC
12 months after handing over to client.  

xv.
Arbitration  
76.0 of GCC &

3.47 of  

APC 

As per clause no.76.0 of GCC& 18 of ACC  

xvii.
Jurisdiction 
76.3 of GCC &

3.48 of 

APC 

As per clause no.76.0 of GCC & 18 of ACC 
Courts in  Chennai  

 
SIGNATUREOFBIDDER  
 
NAME(CAPITALLETTERS):  
 
 
 

OCCUPATION  
 
 
 

ADDRESS  
 
 
 
SEALOFBIDDER 


Page  48  of  63  
 

 
Annexure-V  
 

LETTER OF UNDERTAKING 
(TO BE TYPED ON LETTER HEAD)  

 
TO 

General Manager (Contracts), 
Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. 
3D, EC Chambers, 92 GN Chetty Road 
T.Nagar, Chennai – 600 017 
 
Sub:  Tender for  “ Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)  for the project Provision of 

Administrative and Logistic Infrastructure Under Wp-07 and Wp-5b At Naval Station 
Rambilli Visakhapatnam – package-03 
 
REF:  SRO/CON/ETS/186Dated:21.12.2023  
 

Sir,  

UNDERTAKING FOR ACCEPTANCE OF TENDER CONDITIONS  
 

1.  The Tender Documents for the work as mentioned in “Memorandum” to “Form of 

Tender” have been issued to us by ENGINEERING PROJECTS(INDIA) LIMITED and 
we here by unconditionally accept the tender conditions and Tender Documents in its 
entirely for the above work.  
 

2.  The contents of clause 1.2 and 1.3 of the Tender Documents (Instructions to Tenderers) 

have  been noted wherein it is clarified that after unconditionally accepting the tender 
conditions in its entirely, it is not permissible to put any remarks(s) / condition(s) 
(except unconditional rebate on price, if any) in the ‘Price-Bid’ enclosed in“Envelope-2” 
and the same has been followed in the present case. Incase this provision of the 
Tender is found violated at any time after opening “Envelope-2”, We agree that our 
tender shall be summarily rejected and EPI shall, without prejudice to any other right 
or remedy beat liberty to forfeit the full said Earnest Money absolutely.  
 

3.  The required Earnest Money for this work is enclosed herewith.  

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
………………………………………  

Authorized Signatory 

Seal of Tenderer  
 

Dated:………………….  


Page  49  of  63  
 

Annexure-VI  

10.0  
PROFORMA FOR AFFIDAVIT 

(To be submitted by bidder on non-judicial stamp paper of Rs.100/-(Rupees Hundred only) duly attested by 
Notary Public) (To be submitted in Envelop-1 i.e. Technical bid)  

Affidavit  of 
Mr. 
...............................................S/o…………………………………………………….. R/o 
.............................................  

I, the deponent above named do hereby solemnly affirm and declare as under:  

1. 
That 
I 
am 
the 
Proprietor/Authorized 
signatory 
of 
M/s  
 
…………………………………………………………………….. Having its Head Office/Regd. Office 
at................................................................................  
 
2. 
That 
the 
information/documents/Experience 
certificates 
submitted 
by 
M/s.............................................along with the tender for 
(Name of  work)................To EPl are genuine, 
true and nothing has been concealed.  
 
3. 
  I shall have no objection in case EPl verifies them from issuing authority (ies). I shall also have no 

objection in providing the original copy of the document(s), in case EPI demand so for verification.  
 
4. 
  I here by confirm that in case, any document, information &/ or certificate submitted by me found to 

be incorrect / false / fabricated, EPI at its discretion may disqualify / reject / terminate the bid/contract 
and also forfeit the EMD /All dues.  
 
5. 
  l shall have no objection in case EPI verifies any or all Bank Guarantee(s) under any of the clause(s) 

of Contract including those issued towards EMD and Performance Guarantee from the Zonal Branch 
/office issuing Bank and l/We shall have no right or claim on my submitted EMD before EPl receives 
said verification.  
 
6. 
That the Bank Guarantee issued against the EMD issued by (name and address of the Bank) is 
genuine and if found at any stage to be Incorrect/false/fabricated, EPI shall reject my bid, cancel pre-
qualification and debar me from participating in any future tender for three years.  
 
I……………………………………..……………….,  the  Proprietor  /  Authorized   Signatory  of 
M/s.......................................do here by confirm that the contents of the above Affidavit  are true to my knowledge 
and nothing has been concealed there from ......................................................................................  and  
that no part of it is false. Verified at ……………………this……………………day of………………………..  

 
 
DEPONENT  
ATTESTED BY (NOTARY PUBLIC) 

 
 
 
 
 
 


Page  50  of  63  
 

 
 
ANNEXUREVII  
 

11.0  
 BANKERS' CERTIFICATE FROM A SCHEDULED B ANK 
 
 
This is to certify that to the best of our knowledge and information that M/s / Shri 

………………………………… having marginally noted address  ……………………………… ……. As a 

Customer of our bank are  / is respectable and can be treated as good for any engagement upto a limit 

of Rs ………………………….. ( Rupees ……………………………….. only)   

 
This certificate is issued without any guarantee or responsibility on the bank or any of the officers. 

Date :  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Authorized Signatory of the banker 

Name & Seal 
 
Note:  

1. Bankers certificate should be on letter head of the bank, addressed to tendering Authority 
2. In case of partnership firm, certificate should include names of all the partners as recorded with 

the bank 
 
 
 

(OR) 

 
 
 
 

FORM FOR CERTIFICATE   OF NET WORTH FROM CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT 
 
 
"lt is to certify that as per the audited balance sheet and profit & loss account during the financial year 

............., the Net Worth of M/s .... (Name & Registered Address of individual firm company), as on .... 

(the relevant date) is Rs. ...... after considering all liabilities. lt is further certified that the Net Worth of 

the company has not eroded by more than 30 % in the last three years ending on (the relevant date)." 

Unique Document identification Number (UDIN) ____________________ 

 
Signature of Chartered Accountant ………………………. 
Name of Chartered Accountant …………………………….. 
Membership No. of lCAl …………………… 
Date and seal  
 
 


Page  51  of  63  
 

 
 
 
 

ANNEXURE  VIII 
 

 
Bid Capacity clause treated as VOID for this tender 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Page  52  of  63  
 

 

ANNEXURE  IX 
UNDERTAKING  
(To be submitted by Bidder on its company Lette r  He a d)  
 
To, 
 
Engineering Projects (India)Ltd. 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
3D, EC Chambers, 92 GN Chetty Road 
T.Nagar, Chennai-600017 
Office Phone No. 044-28156886 
 
 
Ref:  Tender for  “ Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)  for the project Provision of 
Administrative and Logistic Infrastructure Under Wp-07 and Wp-5b At Naval Station 
Rambilli Visakhapatnam – package-03  
 

          NIT No: SRO/CON/ETS/186 Dated:21.12.2023  
 

This is to confirm that the following persons are the present Directors of the company /firm: 

1.  
2.  
3.  
4.  
.  
It is further confirmed that none of the above Directors is associated with any other 
company / firm which is quoting for the above referred tender of EPI.  
 
The details of constitution of M/s …………………………………………………………………is 
submitted along with this annexure.  
 
Incase, at any later stage the above information is found incorrect, EPI can cancel our 
BID/LOI/Contract Agreement and may take any suitable action deemed fit against our company. 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Signatory CEO / Proprietor/MD 

 

Date:  
 
 

Name &Seal of the Company 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Page  53  of  63  
 

 
 
ANNEXURE-  X 
 
Undertaking- Local content   
(To be submitted by bidder on its Company Letter Head for contracts value up to Rs.10 Crores) 
 

      NIT No: SRO/CON/ETS/186 Dated:21.12.2023  
 

Ref:  Tender for  “ Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)  for the project Provision of 
Administrative and Logistic Infrastructure Under Wp-07 and Wp-5b At Naval 
Station Rambilli Visakhapatnam – package-03  
 

 
 
 
 
We …………………..(Name of the bidder) undertake that we meet the mandatory minimum local 

content requirement as per Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) – Local Content policy 

against EPI NIT No………… dated…….,The percentage of local content in the bid is ………………..% 

and the items offered in the bid meets the minimum local content and shall give details of the location 

(s) at which the local value addition is made”.  

 
Date:  
 

Authorized Signatory  
 
 
 
 
Name & Seal of the 
Company 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Page  54  of  63  
 

 

ANNEXURE-  XI 
 
12.0 INTEGRITY PACT  
 
 

Between 

Engineering Projects (India) Limited (EPI) hereinafter referred to as “The Principal”, 

and 
…………………………………………… hereinafter referred to as “The Bidder/ Contractor” 

Preamble 
The Principal intends to award, under laid down organizational procedures, contracts/s for 

……………………………………… The principal values full compliance with all relevant laws of the land, 
rules, regulations, economic use of resources and of fairness / transparency in its relations with its Bidder(s) 
and / or Contractor(s). 

In order to achieve these goals, the Principal will appoint Independent External Monitors (IEMs) who will 
monitor the tender process and the execution of the contract for compliance with the principles mentioned 
above. 
 

Section 1 – Commitments of the Principal 
 

(1)  The Principal commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption and to observe the 

following principles:- 
 

a.  No employee of the Principal, personally or through family members, will in connection with the 

tender for , or the execution of a contract, demand, take a promise for or  accept, for self or third 
person, any material or immaterial benefit which the person is  not legally entitled to. 
 

b.  The Principal will, during the tender process treat all Bidder(s) with equity and reason. The Principal 

will in particular, before and during the tender process, provide to all Bidder(s) the same information 
and will not provide to any Bidder(s) confidential / additional information through which the Bidder(s) 
could obtain an advantage in relation to the tender process or the contract execution. 
 

c.  The Principal will exclude from the process all known prejudiced persons. 
 

(2)  If the Principal obtains information on the conduct of any of its employees which is a  criminal offence 

under the IPC/PC Act, or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard, the Principal will inform the 
Chief Vigilance Officer and in addition can initiate disciplinary actions. 
 

Section 2 – Commitments of the Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) 
 
The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) commit themselves to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption. The 
Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) commit themselves to observe the following principles during participation in the tender 
process and during the contract execution. 
 

a.  The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm, offer, promise or 

give  to  any  of  the  Principal’s  employees  involved  in  the  tender  process or the execution of the 
contract or to any third person any material or other benefit which he/she is not legally entitled to, in 
order to obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever during the tender process or 
during the execution of the contract. 


Page  55  of  63  
 

 

b.  The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will not enter with other Bidders into any undisclosed agreement or 

understanding, whether formal or informal. This applies in particular to prices, specifications, 
certifications, subsidiary contracts, submission or non-  submission of bids or any other actions to 
restrict competitiveness or to introduce cartelization in the bidding process. 

c.  The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will not commit any offence under the relevant IPC/PC Act; further the 

Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will not use improperly, for purposes of competition or personal gain, or pass 
on to others, any information or document provided by the Principal as part of the business 
relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals and business details, including information 
contained or transmitted electronically. 
 

d.  The Bidder(s)/Contractors(s) of foreign origin shall disclose the name and address of  the 

Agents/representatives in India, if any. Similarly the Bidder(s)/Contractors(s) of Indian Nationality 
shall furnish the name and address of the foreign principals, if any. Further details as mentioned in 
the 
“Guidelines 
on 
Indian 
Agents 
of 
Foreign 
Suppliers” 
shall 
be 
disclosed 
by 
the 
Bidder(s)/Contractor(s).Further, as mentioned in the Guidelines all the payments made to the Indian 
agent/representative have to be in Indian Rupees only. 
 

e.  The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will, when presenting their bid, disclose any and all payments made, is 

committed to or intends to make to agents, brokers or any other intermediaries in connection with the 
award of the contract. 
 

f. 
The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will, when presenting their bid, disclose any transgressions with any 
other company that may impinge on the anti corruption principle. 
 

g.  Bidder(s) /Contractor(s) who have signed the Integrity Pact shall not approach the Courts while 

representing the matter to IEMs and shall wait for their decision in the matter. 
 

(2)  The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will not instigate third persons to commit offences outlined above or be an 

accessory to such offences. 
 

Section 3 - Disqualification from tender process and exclusion from future Contracts 
 

(1)  If the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s), before award or during execution has committed a transgression through a 

violation of Section 2, above or in any other form such as to put their reliability or credibility in question, 
the Principal is entitled to disqualify the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) from the tender process or to 
terminate the contract, if already signed for such reason. 
 

(2)  If the Bidder/ Contractor has committed a serious transgression through a violation of section – 2 such as 

to put his reliability or credibility into question, the principal is entitled also to exclude the Bidder/ 
Contractor from future contract award processes. The imposition and duration of the exclusion will be 
determined by the severity of the transgression. The severity will be determined by the circumstances of 
the case, in particular the number of transgressions, the position of the transgressors with the company 
hierarchy of the Bidder and the amount of the damage. The exclusion will be imposed for a minimum of 6 
months and maximum of 3 years. 
 
(3)  If the Bidder/ Contractor can prove that he has restored/ recouped the damage caused by him and has 

installed a suitable corruption prevention system, the Principal may revoke the exclusion prematurely. 
 

(4)  A transgression is considered to have occurred if in light of available evidence no reasonable doubt is 


Page  56  of  63  
 

possible. 

Section 4 – Compensation for Damages 
 

(1)  If the Principal has disqualified the Bidder(s) from the tender process prior to the award according to 

Section 3, the Principal is entitled to demand and recover the damages equivalent to Earnest Money 
Deposit/ Bid Security. 
 

(2)  If the Principal has terminated the contract according to Section 3, or if the Principal is entitled to 

terminate the contract according to Section 3, the Principal shall be entitled to demand and recover from 
the Contractor liquidated damages of the Contract value or the amount equivalent to Performance Bank 
Guarantee. 
 

Section 5 – Previous transgression 
 

(1)  The Bidder declares that no previous transgressions occurred in the last three years with any other 

Company in any country conforming to the anti-corruption approach or with any Public Sector Enterprise 
in India that could justify his exclusion from the tender process. 
 

(2)  If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be disqualified from the tender process. 
 

Section 6 – Equal treatment of all Bidders / Contractors / Subcontractors 
 

(1)  In case of joint venture, all the partners of the joint venture should sign the Integrity Pact. In case of Sub-

contracting, the Principal Contractor shall take the responsibility of the  adoption of Integrity Pact by the 
sub-contractor and submit duly signed Integrity Pact by all the sub-contractors. 

(2)  The Principal will enter into agreements with identical conditions as this one with all Biddersand 

Contractors. 
 

(3)  The Principal will disqualify from the tender process all bidders who do not sign this Pact or violate its 

provisions. 
Section 
7 
– 
Criminal 
charges 
against 
violating 
Bidder(s) 
/ 
Contractor(s) 
/ 
Subcontractor(s) 
 

If the Principal obtains knowledge of conduct of a Bidder, Contractor or Subcontractor, or of an employee or a 
representative or an associate of a Bidder, Contractor or Subcontractor which constitutes corruption, or if the 
Principal has substantive suspicion in this regard, the Principal will inform the same to the Chief Vigilance 
Officer. 

Section 8 – Independent External Monitor 
 

(1)  The Principal appoints competent and credible Independent External Monitor for this Pact after approval 

by Central Vigilance Commission. The task of the Monitor is to review independently and objectively, 
whether and to what extent the parties comply with the obligations under this agreement. 
 

(2)  The Monitor is not subject to instructions by the representatives of the parties and performs his/ her 

functions neutrally and independently. The Monitor would have access to all Contract documents, 
whenever required. It will be obligatory for him / her to treat the information and documents of the 
Bidders/Contractors as confidential. He/ she reports to the Chairman, EPI. 
 

(3)  The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) accepts that the Monitor has the right to access without restriction to all 

Project documentation of the Principal including that provided by the Contractor. The Contractor will also 
grant the Monitor, upon his/her request and demonstration of a valid interest, unrestricted and 


Page  57  of  63  
 

unconditional access to their project documentation. The same is applicable to Sub-contractors. 
 

(4)  The Monitor is under contractual obligation to treat the information and documents of the Bidder(s)/ 

Contractor(s)/ Sub-contractor(s) with confidentiality. The Monitor has also signed declarations on „Non-
Disclosure of Confidential Information‟ and of „Absence of Conflict of Interest‟. In case of any conflict of 
interest arising at a later date, the IEM shall inform Chairman, EPI and recues himself / herself from that 
case. 
 

(5)  The Principal will provide to the Monitor sufficient information about all meetings among the parties 

related to the Project provided such meetings could have an impact on the contractual relations between 
the Principal and the Contractor. The parties offer to the Monitor the option to participate in such 
meetings. 
 

(6)  As soon as the Monitor notices, or believes to notice, a violation of this agreement, he/she will so inform 

the Management of the Principal and request the Management to discontinue or take corrective action, or 
to take other relevant action. The monitor can in this regard submit non-binding recommendations. 
Beyond this, the Monitor has no right to demand from the parties that they act in a specific manner, 
refrain from action or tolerate action. However, the independent External Monitor shall give an opportunity 
to the Bidder/ Contractor to present its case before making its recommendations to the Principal. 
 

(7)  The Monitor will submit a written report to the Chairman, EPI within 8 to 10 weeks from the date of 

reference or intimation to him by the Principal and, should the occasion arise, submit proposals for 
correcting problematic situations. 
 

(8)  Monitor shall be entitled to compensation on the same terms as being extended to / provided to 

Independent Directors on the EPI Board. 
 

(9)  If the Monitor has reported to the Chairman EPI, a substantiated suspicion of an offence under relevant 

IPC/ PC Act, and the Chairman EPI has not, within the reasonable time taken visible action to proceed 
against such offence or reported it to the Chief Vigilance Officer, the Monitor may also transmit this 
information directly to the Central Vigilance Commissioner. 
 

(10)  The word  ‘Monitor’  would include both singular and plural. 
 

(11)  Independent External Monitor shall be required to maintain confidentially of the information acquired and 

gathered during their tenure/ role as independent Monitor. Any breach in this regard would be subject to 
the legal judicial system of India. 
 

Section 9 – Pact Duration 
 
 

This Pact begins when both parties have legally signed it. It expires for the Contractor 12 months after the 
last payment under the contract, and for all other Bidders 6 months after the contract has been awarded. Any 
violation of the same would entail disqualification of the bidders and exclusion from future business dealings. 

If any claim is made / lodged during this time, the same shall be binding and continue to be valid despite the 
lapse of this pact as specified above, unless it is discharged / determined by Chairman of EPI. 
 

Section 10 – Other provisions 
 


Page  58  of  63  
 

 

(1)  This agreement is subject to Indian Law. Place of performance and jurisdiction is the Registered Office of 

the Principal, i.e. New Delhi. 
 

(2)  Changes and supplements as well as termination notices need to be made in writing. Side agreements 

have not been made. 
 

(3)  If the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this agreement must be signed by all partners or 

consortium members. 
 

(4)  Should one or several provisions of this agreement turn out to be invalid, the   remainder of 

this agreement remains valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come to an agreement to their original 
intentions. 
 
 

(5)  Issues like Warranty / Guarantee etc. shall be outside the purview of IEMs. 
 
 
 
 

(For & On behalf of the Principal) 
     (For & On behalf of Bidder/ 

Contractor) 
 
 

(Office Seal) 
(Office Seal) 
 
 

Place ------------- 

Date -------------- 
 
 

Witness 1: 

(Name & Address) 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

Witness 2: 

(Name & Address) 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 


Page  59  of  63  
 

 
 

 

          ANNEXURE-  XII 
TENDER ACCEPTANCE LETTER 
(To be given on Company Letter Head) 

 

Date:  

TO 

General Manager (Contracts), 
Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. 
3D, EC Chambers, 92 GN Chetty Road 
T.Nagar, Chennai – 600 017 
 
Sub:  Tender for  “ Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)  for the project Provision of 

Administrative and Logistic Infrastructure Under Wp-07 and Wp-5b At Naval Station 
Rambilli Visakhapatnam – package-03 
 
  REF:  SRO/CON/ETS/186 Dated:21.12.2023 
 
Dear Sir, 

1. 
I/ We have downloaded / obtained the tender document(s) for the above mentioned 
‘Tender/Work’ from 
the 
web 
site(s) namely: 
___________________________________________________________________ 

as per your advertisement, given in the above‐mentioned website(s). 

2. 
I / We hereby certify that I / we have read the entire terms and conditions of the tender 
documents (including all documents like annexure(s), schedule(s), etc.,), which form part of the 
contract agreement and I / we shall abide hereby by the terms / conditions / clauses contained 
therein. 

3. 
The corrigendum(s) issued from time to time by your department/ organization too have 
also been taken into consideration, while submitting this acceptance letter. 

4. 
I / We hereby unconditionally accept the tender conditions of above mentioned tender 
document(s) / corrigendum(s) in its totality / entirety. 

5. 
I / We do hereby declare that our Firm has not been blacklisted/ debarred by any Govt. 
Department/Public sector undertaking. 

6. 
I / We certify that all information furnished by our Firm is true & correct and, in the event, 
that the information is found to be incorrect/untrue or found violated, then your department/ 
organization shall without giving any notice or reason therefore or summarily reject the bid or 
terminate the contract, without prejudice to any other rights or remedy including the forfeiture of 
the full said earnest money deposit absolutely. 

Yours Faithfully, 

 

(Signature of the Bidder, with Official Seal) 

 
 


Page  60  of  63  
 

 
 
ANNEXURE XIII 
 
SITE  VISIT REPORT  
To,   

General Manager (Contracts), 
Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. 
3D, EC Chambers, 92 GN Chetty Road 
T.Nagar, Chennai – 600 017 
 
 
Sub:  Tender for  “ Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)  for the project Provision of 

Administrative and Logistic Infrastructure Under Wp-07 and Wp-5b At Naval Station 
Rambilli Visakhapatnam – package-03 
 
  REF:  SRO/CON/ETS/186Dated:21.12.2023  
 
 
 
 
Dear Sir,  
 
I/We__________________________________ 
undersigned 
visited 
the 
project 
site 
on 

_______________ and collected all the required information and data regarding availability of material 

and noted the environmental condition.  

 

Yours faithfully  

 

 

(Signature of the Tenderer)  

Seale of Tenderer  

Date:  

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 


Page  61  of  63  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure–XIV 
 

 

Declaration for no additions/deletion/corrections made in the downloaded tender document 

 
(To be submitted by Bidder on its company Letter He a d) 
 
To, 
 
General Manager (Contracts), 
Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
3D, EC Chambers, 92 GN Chetty Road 
T.Nagar, Chennai-600017 
Office Phone No. 044-28156886 
 

Sub:  Tender for  “ Supply of Ready-mix Concrete (RMC)  for the project Provision of 

Administrative and Logistic Infrastructure Under Wp-07 and Wp-5b At Naval Station 
Rambilli Visakhapatnam – package-03 
 
  REF:  SRO/CON/ETS/186 Dated:21.12.2023  
 
 
 
No addition/deletion/corrections have been made in the downloaded tender document being uploaded 

by M/s ____________________ and it is identical to the tender document appearing on the Website. 

In case of any discrepancy between the downloaded tender documents from the website and the 

uploaded copy by me/us, the tender documents appearing in the website being uploaded by EPI with 

the tender shall hold good for contractual as well as legal purposes. 

 
 
 

Signature of the Tenderer 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
         Seal of Tenderer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         Date : 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


Page  62  of  63  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure –XV 
 

PROFORMA FOR BANK GURANTEE IN LIEU OF EARNEST MONEY DEPOSIT 
 
In consideration of Chairman & managing Director, Engineering Projects (India) Limited, (A Govt. of 
India Enterprise), Core-3, Scope Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi Pin- 110003. (hereinafter called 
the EPI) having agreed to accept bank Guarantee of Rs................... in lieu of EARNEST MONEY 
DEPOSIT from ..................................................................... (hereinafter called the Supplier/ 
Contractor/ Sub-Contractor, which expression shall include its heirs, successors and assignees) in 
respect of the Tender for................................................................................... 
 
We, 
........................................ 
bank 
having 
its 
registered/head 
office 
at 
................................(hereinafter referred to as the Bank) do hereby agree and undertake to pay to 
EPI without demur or protest an amount not exceeding Rs............................. on demand by EPI. 
 
We the above said Bank further agree and undertake to pay the said amount of Rs.......................... 
without any demur on demand within 48 hours. Any demand made on the Bank by EPI shall be 
conclusive as regards the amount due and payable by the Bank under this guarantee. 
 
We the above said Bank further agree that the guarantee herein contained shall be in full force and 
in effect until ............................................................... date .............................. Unless a demand or 
claim under this guarantee is made on us in writing on or before....................................... date 
............................... , we shall be discharged from all liabilities under this guarantee thereafter. 
 
We, the above said Bank, further agree that EPI shall have full liberty, without our consent and 
without affecting in any manner our obligation to verify, modify or delete any of the conditions. We, 
the above said Bank, lastly undertake not to revoke this guarantee during its currency except with 
the prior consent of EPI in writing. 
 
Dated………………..…..this day of……………..202x. 
 
For and on behalf of the Bank 
 
NOTE: on a Non-Judicial stamp paper of Rs. 100/- (Rupees One hundred only) 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Page  63  of  63  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22.0  Instruction to Tenderer (ITT) 

& 
General Purchase Conditions (GPC) of EPIL, 

 
23.0   Manual for e-tendering 

 
24.00  DGNP Condition of Contract. (in Volume- II) 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 




Instructions to Tenderers 
Engineering Projects (India) Limited 

ENGINEERING PROJECTS (INDIA) LIMITED

(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 

INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS

1.0
MODE OF SUBMISSION

The Tender is to be submitted in two separate sealed covers marked as under : 

ENVELOPE-1 :-

This ENVELOPE shall contain the following : 

i) 
Earnest Money Deposit as per clause 2.0 of ‘Instructions to Tenderers’ (ITT). 
ii) Letter of Undertaking for un-conditional acceptance of the tender conditions 
as per proforma given in ITT.
iii) Pre-Qualification Documents and Credentials as per clause 19.0 of ITT. 
iv) Volume-I (ITT, General Conditions of Contract), 
Volume-II (Notice Inviting Tender, Additional Conditions of Contract, 
Specifications, Drawings) and Corrigendum/ Addendum, if any, duly filled in, 
signed and stamped on each page by tenderer. Cutting or over-writing, if any, 
shall be signed and stamped by the person signing the Tender. All pro-forma 
forming part of Tender Documents shall be filled in, signed and stamped by 
the tenderer. 
v) Copy of power of attorney / partnership deed, duly attested by Notary Public 
authorizing the person who signs the Tender. 
vi) Any other information as required to be submitted along-with the Tender. 

This envelope shall be marked as : 

ENVELOPE-1 “TECHNO-COMMERCIAL BID” FOR  (Name of work as 
mentioned in “Notice Inviting Tender”)

NIT No.  :  
__________________________________ 
DUE ON : 
__________________________________ 
FROM     : 
(Name of the Contractor) 

ENVELOPE – 2 :-

This ENVELOPE shall contain only the  Volume-III  comprising of  PRICE-BID .

This envelope shall be marked as : 

ENVELOPE-2  : ‘ PRICE-BID’ FOR  (Name of Work as mentioned in 
“Notice Inviting Tender”) 

NIT No.  :  
__________________________________ 
DUE ON : 
__________________________________ 
FROM     :  
(Name of the Contractor) 

Signature of Contractor           
EPI
Page 1


Instructions to Tenderers 
Engineering Projects (India) Limited 

Both the envelopes / packets shall be individually sealed and kept in an outer 
envelope marked as : 

TENDER FOR  (Name of Work as mentioned in “Notice Inviting Tender”) 

NIT No.  :  
__________________________________ 

DUE ON : 
__________________________________ 

FROM     :
(Name of the Contractor) 

The outer envelope shall be duly sealed and shall be delivered at place of 
submission of Tender by the date and time fixed for receipt of Tender as 
mentioned in “Notice Inviting Tender”. The Tenders received after the date and 
time of Tender receipt shall not be considered and shall be returned to the 
tenderer unopened. EPI shall not be responsible for any postal or other delays, 
whatsoever and tenderer should take care to ensure the submission of Tender at 
place of receipt of Tender by due date and time fixed for Tender receipt.  All the 
envelopes shall be addressed to the  authority who has invited the Tender as 
mentioned in “Notice Inviting Tender”. 

1.1 
First the Envelope-1 of the tenderer shall be opened. Tenderers who un-
conditionally accept the tender conditions, deposit the required Earnest Money 
and whose Techno-Commercial Bid along with PQ Documents is found suitable 
shall be considered for the opening of their Price Bid and Envelope-2 of such 
tenderers shall only be opened. The Tenders not accompanied by requisite 
Earnest Money and / or not conveying un-conditional acceptance of tender 
conditions or whose Techno-Commercial Bid and PQ Documents are not found 
suitable, shall be rejected and such tenderer shall not be allowed to attend Price 
Bid opening i.e. opening of Envelope-2. 

1.2 
Once the tenderer has given an unconditional acceptance to the tender 
conditions in its entirety, he is not permitted to put any remark(s) / condition(s) 
(except unconditional rebate on price, if any) in / along with the ‘Price-Bid’ / 
Tender.

1.3 
In case the condition 1.2 mentioned above is found violated at any time after 
opening of Tender, the Tender shall be summarily rejected and EPI shall, without 
prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit the full said Earnest 
Money absolutely. 

2.0
EARNEST MONEY DEPOSIT 

Earnest Money Deposit of amount as mentioned in “NIT/ITT/Memorandum” to 
“Form of Tender” required to be submitted alongwith the Tender shall be in the 
form of Demand Draft payable at place as mentioned in “NIT/ITT” in favour of EPI 
Limited from any Nationalized / Scheduled Bank or in the form of Bank 
Guarantee from any Nationalized / Scheduled Bank in enclosed format. The 
EMD Bank Guarantee shall be valid for a minimum period of 150 (One Hundred 
Fifty) days from last day of submission of Tender. The EMD shall be governed by 
Clause 7.0 of General Conditions of Contract. 

3.0 
EPI reserves the right to reject any or all the Tenders in part or full without 
assigning any reason whatsoever thereof. EPI does not bind themselves to 

______________________________________________________________________________________
Signature of Contractor           
EPI
Page 2


Instructions to Tenderers 
Engineering Projects (India) Limited 

accept the lowest Tender. EPI reserves the right to award the work to a single 
party or to split the work amongst two or more parties as deemed necessary 
without assigning any reason thereof. The Contractor is bound to accept the 
portion of work as offered by EPI after split up at the quoted / negotiated rates. 

4.1   
FOR ITEM RATE TENDERS  

4.1.1 The tenderers should quote the rates for items tendered by them in figures as 
well as in words and the amounts in figures only. The amount for each item 
should be worked out and the requisite totals and page totals given.

4.1.2 All corrections/cuttings should be signed by the tenderer. Each page of the 
Tender should be signed by the tenderer. In the event of discrepancy between 
rate in figures and words the rate quoted in words shall be treated as correct. In 
case there is discrepancy between rate and amount worked out, the rate quoted 
shall be taken as correct and not the amount. 

4.1.3 Price shall be entered against each item in Bill of Quantities where quantities or 
LS (lump-sump) has been mentioned. The cost of item against which the 
Contractor has failed to enter a rate or price shall be deemed to be covered by 
rates and prices of other items in the Bill of Quantities and no payment shall be 
made for the quantities executed for items against which rate has not been 
quoted by Contractor.  No rate is to be quoted against items for which no quantity 
is given. However, the Contractor has to quote rate against “LS” items. 

4.2  
FOR PERCENTAGE RATE TENDERS   

4.2.1. In case of Percentage Rate Tenders, tenderer shall fill up in the Schedule / Bill of 
Quantities, percentage Below/Above/Par (in figures as well as in words) to total 
estimated cost given in Schedule / Bill of Quantities, he will be willing to execute 
the work. The tenderer should quote a unique single percentage plus / minus 
over the total estimated amount given in Schedule / Bill of Quantities. In case 
more than one schedule is given, stipulating quoting of separate percentages 
(plus or minus) over the estimated amount of each schedule, the tenderer can 
quote separate percentages for each such schedule. Under no circumstances, 
tenderer is allowed to quote separate percentages for individual items, trades or 
group of items. In case tenderer quotes separate percentages for individual 
items, trades or group of items instead of to the total amount of schedule(s), the 
Tender shall be rejected and earnest money of the tenderer shall be forfeited in 
totality.

4.2.2 In case of Percentage Rate Tenders, the tenderer shall also work out the total 
amount of his offer after adding percentage (plus or minus) over the total 
schedule amount and the same should be written in figures as well as in words in 
such a way that no interpolation is possible.

4.2.3 In case of Percentage Rate Tenders, only percentage quoted shall be 
considered. Any tender containing item rates is liable to be rejected. Percentage 
quoted by the tenderer in Percentage Rate Tender shall be accurately filled in 
figures and words. All corrections/cuttings should be signed by the tenderer. 
Each page of the Tender should be signed by the tenderer. In the event of 
discrepancy between percentage rate in figures and words, the percentage rate 

Signature of Contractor           
EPI
Page 3


Instructions to Tenderers 
Engineering Projects (India) Limited 

quoted in words shall be treated as correct. In case there is discrepancy between 
percentage rate and amount worked out the percentage rate quoted shall be 
taken as correct and not the amount. For any other discrepancy, the decision of 
Tender Scrutiny Committee of EPI shall be final & binding on the tenderer 
including rejection of Tender and forfeiture of EMD. 

5.0 
The Tenders shall be strictly as per the conditions of contract. Tenders with any 
additional condition(s)/modification(s) shall be rejected. 

6.0 
The witnesses to the Tender / Contract Agreement shall be other than the 
tenderer / tenderers competing for this work and must indicate full name, 
address, status/occupation with dated signatures. 

7.0 
The acceptance of Tender will rest with EPI. Tenders in which any of the 
prescribed conditions are not fulfilled or found incomplete in any respect are 
liable to be rejected. 

8.0 
Canvassing whether directly or indirectly in connection with Tenders is strictly 
prohibited and the Tenders submitted by the Contractors who resort to 
canvassing will be liable to rejection. 

9.0 
On acceptance of Tender, the name of the accredited representative(s) of the 
Contractor who would be responsible for taking instructions from Engineer-In-
Charge or its authorised representative shall be intimated by the Contractor with 
in 07 days of issue date of telegram / letter / telex / fax of Intent by EPI. 

10.0 
The tenderer shall not be permitted to Tender for works if his near relative is 
posted as an Assistant Manager or any higher ranks in the concerned Regional 
Office of EPI. The Contractor shall also intimate the names of persons who are 
working with him in any capacity or are subsequently employed by him and who 
are near relatives to any of the officers in EPI. Any breach of this condition by the 
tenderer would render him liable to the withdrawal of the work awarded to him 
and forfeiture of Earnest Money and Security Deposit. This may also debar the 
Contractor from tendering for future works under EPI. 

11.0 
No employee of EPI of the rank of Assistant Manager and above is allowed to 
work as a Contractor or as an employee of a Contractor having interest in EPI for 
a period of two years after his retirement/relief from the service of EPI, without 
the prior permission of EPI in writing. This contract is liable to be cancelled if 
either the Contractor or any of his employee is found at any time to be such a 
person who had not obtained the permission of EPI as aforesaid before 
submission of the Tender or engagement in the Contractor’s service. 

12.0 
The time of completion of the entire work, as contained in contract shall be as 
mentioned in “Memorandum” to “Form of Tender”, which shall be reckoned from 
the 10 th  day from issue of the Letter / Telex / Telegram / Fax of Intent by the EPI. 

13.0 
The Tender award, execution and completion of work shall be governed by 
Tender Documents consisting of (but not limited to) Letter of Intent / Letter of 
work Order, Bill of Quantities, Additional Conditions of Contract, General 
Conditions of Contract, Specifications, Drawings, etc. The tenderers shall be 

______________________________________________________________________________________
Signature of Contractor           
EPI
Page 4


Instructions to Tenderers 
Engineering Projects (India) Limited 

deemed to have gone through the various conditions and clauses of the Tender 
and visited the Site and satisfied itself with Site conditions including sub-soil 
water conditions, topography of the land, drainage and accessibility etc. or any 
other condition which in the opinion of Contractor will affect his price / rates 
before quoting their rates. No claim whatsoever against the foregoing shall be 
entertained by EPI. 

14.0 
The Drawings given with the Tender Documents are TENDER DRAWINGS and  
are indicative only. 

15.0
Transfer of bid documents purchased by one intending bidder to another is not 
 
permissible. 

16.0 
Tenders must be duly signed with date and sealed. An attested copy of power of 
attorney/affidavit/Board Resolution executed as under shall accompany the 
‘Tender Documents’. 

a) In case of Sole Proprietorship, an affidavit of Sole Proprietorship and if the 
Tender is signed by any other person Power of Attorney by the Sole 
Proprietor in favour of signatory. 

b) In case of Partnership firm, if Tender is not signed by all the partners, Power 
of Attorney in favour of the Partner/person signing the tender/documents by 
all the partners authorizing him to sign the tender/documents.

c) In case of Company, copy of the Board Resolution authorizing the signatory 
to sign on behalf of the Company. 

17.0 
Tenders with following discrepancies are liable for rejection:- 

a) Tenders with over-written or erased rates, percentages, amounts or rates, 
percentages not written in both figures and words. 

b) Tender that is incomplete, ambiguous, and not accompanied by the 
documents asked for or submitted without EMD or with inadequate EMD. 

c) Tender received after specified date/time whether due to postal or other 
delays.

d) Tender in respect of which canvassing in any form is resorted to by the 
tenderer whatsoever. 

e) If the tenderer deliberately gives wrong information in his tender or resorts to 
unfair methods in creating circumstances for the acceptance of his tender, 
EPI reserves the right to reject such tender at any stage. 

18.0 
Submission of a tender by the tenderer implies that he has read the complete 
contract documents and has made himself aware of the scope, terms & 
conditions and specifications of the work to be done and of conditions at which 
stores, tools, plant, etc. will be issued to him by EPI (if any), local conditions and 

Signature of Contractor           
EPI
Page 5


Instructions to Tenderers 
Engineering Projects (India) Limited 

political situations and other factors having bearing on the execution of the 
works. No claim of Contractor whatsoever, within the purview of this clause, shall 
be entertained at any stage of the project. 

19.0 
Tenderer shall submit the following documents along with their Tenders in the 
first envelope ( Techno-Commercial Bid) :- 

a) List of works executed during the last 5 years indicating name of the Client, 
value, date of start and completion.
b) List of works under execution indicating name of the Client, Total Contract 
Value, Value of balance work in hand, date of start and completion.
c) Details of similar works executed. 
d) Audited balance sheets and profit and loss accounts alongwith schedules for 
the last 3 years. 
e) Copy of latest income-tax returns filed along with PAN. 
f) Details of manpower available. 
g) Details of equipments, tools and plant available. 
h) Credentials and completion certificates. 
i) 
Registration Certificate/Memorandum and Articles of Association/Partnership 
Deed/ Affidavit. 
j) 
Copy of Provident Fund Number allotted by PF authorities. 
k) Copy of letters of registration with various authorities like CPWD, State PWD, 
MES and Public Sector Undertakings, etc. 
l) 
Latest Solvency certificate from Nationalised/Scheduled Bank. 
m) Latest Sales Tax Registratin and Clearance Certificate. 
n) Any other document as stipulated above and in “Tender Documents’

20.      Purchase Preference may be granted to the Central Public Sector Enterprises as 
per the applicable guidelines in force in this regard issued by the Government of 
India.

______________________________________________________________________________________
Signature of Contractor           
EPI
Page 6


General Conditions of Contract 
Engineering Projects (India) Limited 
 

 
Signature of Contractor           
 
EPI 
  

 
 Page 101

 
  FORMAT NO. EPI/MMD/F/17 

   
 

SECURITY DEPOSIT CUM PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE  

 
 
The Chairman &Managing Director 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise), 
Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. 
Core-3, SCOPE Complex 
7, Institutional Area, Lodhi road 
New Delhi –110 003 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
In consideration of the Chairman & Managing Director, Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise), Core-3, Scope Complex, 7 Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, 
New Delhi – 110 003 (hereinafter called ‘EPI’ which expression shall unless repugnant to 
the subject or context includes its successors and assigns) having agreed under the 
terms 
and 
conditions 
of 
Supply 
Contract/Contract/Sub-Contract 
no.____________________________________________________________________
______Dated_______________________made 
between 
M/s 
________________________________________________________________ 
_________________________ 
(hereinafter 
referred 
to 
as 
the 
said 
Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor) which expression shall unless repugnant to the 
subject or context includes its successors and assigns) and EPI in connection with 
______________________________________________ (hereinafter called ‘The said 
Supply Contract/Contract/Sub-Contract) to accept a Deed  Security Deposit-cum-
Performance Bank Guarantee as herein provided for ________________________in 
lieu of : 
 

a) The Security Deposit to be made by the said Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor 
for the due fulfillment by the said Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor of the terms 
and conditions contained in the said Supply Contract/Contract/Sub-contract, and  
 

b) Fulfillment of the conditions of the said Supply Contract /Contract/Sub-Contract 
by 
furnishing 
a security for the performance of the works and/or 
equipment/materials supplied in accordance with conditions of the said Supply 
Contract/ Contract/ Sub-Contract. 
 
1. We _____________________________(hereinafter referred to as “the said bank 
which expression shall unless repugnant to the subject or context includes its 
successors 
and 
assigns) 
and 
having 
our 
registered 
office 
at 
________________________ do hereby unconditionally and irrevocably undertake 
and agree to indemnify and keep indemnified EPI from time to time to the extent of 
(_______________________________) Only against any loss, damages, costs, 
charges and expenses caused to or suffered by or that may be caused or suffered by 
EP [I by reason of any breach or breaches by the said Supplier/Contractor/Sub-
Contractor of any of the terms and conditions contained in the said Supply 
Contract/Contract/Sub-Contract and or any amount becoming due for non-


General Conditions of Contract 
Engineering Projects (India) Limited 

 
 

 

Signature of Contractor           
 
EPI 
 
  

 
 Page 102

performance and /or penalty as assessed by EPI and top unconditionally pay the 
amount claimed by EPI on demand and without demur and protest. 
 
2. We the said Bank further agree that the guarantee herein contained shall remain in 
full force and effect during the period that would be taken for the performance of the 
said Supply Contract/Contract/Sub-Contract and till all the dues of EPI under the said 
Supply Contract/Contract/Sub-Contract or by virtue of any of the terms and 
conditions governing the said Supply Contract/ Contract/ Sub-Contract have been 
fully paid and its claims satisfied or discharged and till EPI certifies that the terms 
and conditions of the said Supply Contract/Contract/Sub-Contract have been fully 
and properly carried out by the said Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor  and 
accordingly discharge this guarantee subject, however, that EPI shall have no claim 
under this guarantee after 6 months from the date of expiry  of the guarantee unless 
a notice of the claim under this guarantee has been served on the Bank before the 
expiry of the said period of 6 months. 
 
3. EPI shall have the fullest liberty without affecting in any way the liability of the said 
Bank under this Guarantee or indemnity from time to time to vary any of the terms 
and conditions of the said Supply Contract/Contract/Sub-Contract to extend time of 
performance of the said Supply Contract/ Contract/ Sub-Contract or to postpone for 
any time and from time to time any power’s exercisable by it against the said 
Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor and either to enforce or forbear from enforcing 
any of the terms and conditions governing the said Supply Contract/ Contract/ Sub-
Contract or securities available to EPI and the said Bank shall not be released from 
its liability under these presents by any exercise  by EPI  of the liberty with reference 
to the matters aforesaid or by reason of time being given to the said 
Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor or  of any other matter or thing whatsoever which 
under the law relating to sureties would but for this provision have the effect of so 
releasing the said Bank from its such liability. 
 
4. We, the said Bank, further agree that EPI shall be the sole judge of and as to 
whether the said Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor has committed any beach or 
breaches of any of the terms and conditions of the said Supply Contract/Contract/ 
Sub-Contract and the extent of loss, damage, cost, charges and expenses caused to 
or suffered by or that may be caused to or suffered by EPI on account thereof and 
the decision of EPI that the said Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor has committed 
such breach or breaches and as to the amount or amounts of loss, damages, costs, 
charges and expenses caused to or suffered by EPI from time to time shall be final 
and binding on the Bank. 
 
5. This guarantee shall be a continuing guarantee and shall remain valid and 
irrevocable for all claims of EPI and liabilities of the said Supplier/Contractor/Sub-
Contractor arising up to and until mid night of ________________________, subject 
the claim period as mentioned in para ______________. 
 
6. This guarantee shall be in addition to any other guarantee or security whatsoever 
that EPI may now or at any time anywise may have in relation to the said 
Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor obligation/liabilities under and/or in connection 
with the said Supply Contract/Contract/Sub-Contract and EPI shall have full authority 
to take recourse to or enforce this guarantee in preference to any other guarantee or 


General Conditions of Contract 
Engineering Projects (India) Limited 
 

 
Signature of Contractor           
 
EPI 
  

 
 Page 103

security which EPI may have or obtain and there shall be no forbearance on the part 
of EPI IN ENFORCING OR REQUIRING ENFORCEMENT  OF ANY OTHER 
SECURITY  AND  shall not have the effect of releasing the said Bank from its full 
liability hereunder: 
 
7. EPI shall be at liberty without reference to the said Bank and without effecting the full 
liability of the said Bank hereunder to take any other security in respect of the said 
supplier’s/Contractor’s/sub-Contractor’s obligations and/or liabilities under or in 
connection with the said Supply Contract/ Contract/ Sub-Contract. 
 
8. This guarantee shall not be determined or affected by the liquidation or winding up, 
dissolution, 
or 
change 
of 
constitution 
or 
insolvency 
of 
the 
said 
Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor, but shall in all respects and for all purposes be 
binding and operative until payment of all moneys paid to EPI in terms thereof. 
 
9. The said Bank hereby waives all rights at any time inconsistent with the terms of this 
guarantee and the obligations of the said Bank in terms hereof shall not be anywise 
affected or suspended by reasons of any dispute or disputes having been raised by 
the said Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor (whether or not pending before any 
arbitrator, tribunal or court) of any denial or liability by the said Supplier/ Contractor/ 
Sub-Contractor stopping or preventing or purporting to stop or prevent any payment 
by the said Bank to EPI in terms hereof. The amount stated in any notice of demand 
addressed by EPI to the Guarantor Bank as liable to be paid to EPI by the Supplier/ 
Contractor/ Sub-Contractor on account of any losses or damages or costs, charges 
and /or expenses shall as between the said bank and EPI be conclusive evidence of 
the amount so liable to be paid to EPI or suffered or incurred by EPI as the case may 
be and payable by the said Bank to EPI in terms hereof. We, the said Bank further 
undertake that we shall pay forthwith the amount stated in the notice of demand to 
EPI without demur and protest. 
 
10. We, the said bank undertake not to revoke this guarantee during its currency except 
with the consent of EPI in writing and agree that any change in the constitution of the 
aid Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor or the said Bank shall not discharge our 
liabilities hereunder. 

 
11. It 
shall 
not 
be 
necessary 
for 
EPI 
to 
proceed 
against 
the 
said 
Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor before proceeding against the Bank and the 
guarantee herein contained shall be enforceable against the Bank notwithstanding 
any 
security 
which 
EPI 
may 
have 
obtained 
or 
obtain 
from 
the 
Supplier/Contractor/Sub-Contractor shall at the time when proceedings are taken 
against the said Bank hereunder be outstanding or unrealized. 
 
12. Our liability under this guarantee shall be restricted to ____________________ and 
this guarantee shall remain in force until midnight of __________________ unless a 
claim to enforce this guarantee is filed with us within six months from 
___________________. (which is date of expiry of this guarantee), we shall be 
discharged from all liabilities under this guarantee thereafter. 
 
DATED   ---------------------------- THIS day of -----------------------200… 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF BANK 


                                                                                                                                            DLI/LCP/ITD/203 
  
  
                                 Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. 
                                                (A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
  
                           Materials Management Division  
  
                           GENERAL PURCHASE CONDITIONS  
1. Definition 
 
1.1   The Buyer means Engineering Projects (India) Limited, a Company incorporated in  
         India    and having its registered office and Corporate Office at Core 3, Scope     
         Complex, Lodi Road, New Delhi-110003.  
  
1.2   Supplier' means the tenderer whose tender has been accepted and shall include his    
         its/their heirs, executors, administrators or successors and permitted agents as the      
         case may be. 
  
1.3   'Purchase Order' means the letter of memorandum, communicating to the supplier, the    
        acceptance of his tender and includes an advance acceptance of his tender. 
  
1.4   'Consignee' means where the stores are required by the purchase order to be  
         despatched by rail, road, air or steamer, the person specified in the Purchase Order to    
         whom they are to be delivered at the destination, where the stores are required by the  
         Purchase Order to be delivered to a person as an interim consignee for the purpose of  
         despatch to another person, such other person and in any other case the person to  
         whom the stores are required by the Purchase Order to be delivered in the manner  
         specified therein. 
  
1.5    'Inspectors' : Inspectors deputed by BUYER. 
  
2. Terms & Expressions  
Terms & expressions not herein defined shall have the same meanings as assigned to them in the Indian 
Sales of Goods Act, 1930, Indian Contract Act, 1872 and General Clause Act, 1897. 
  
3. Prices  
Prices accepted by the BUYER shall be considered as firm and not subject to escalation due to any 
variations in the prices of materials, labour and/or any other reasons whosoever which may occur while 
the order is being carried out. 
  
4. Payment Terms  
Unless otherwise agreed upon between the parties, payment for delivery of the stores will be made on 
submission of bills in accordance with instruction given in the purchase order by a cheque or demand 
draft in accordance with the following procedure. 
  
4.1   90% of the price of the equipment/material shall be paid on proof of despatch to the   
        consignee through bank or delivery to an interim consignee, if any, and on production  
        of Inspection Note issued by the Inspector, Maker's Test Certificate, the number- and  


        date of the Railway receipt, postal receipt, bill of lading or consignment note under  
        which the goods charged for in the bill are despatched by rail, post, sea or air  
        respectively and the number and date of the letter with which such railway receipt,  
        post receipt, bill of lading shall also be attached to the bill and in the case of stores  
        despatched by post, the postal receipt shall be attached in original to the bill. The  
         bank charges shall be borne by the supplier. 
  
4.2   Balance 10% of price of equipment/material shall be released within 30 days after  
        expiry of the warranty period as per Clause No. 17. 
  
5. Insurance to be arranged by BUYER.  
  
6. Inspection, Checking, Testing  
  
The stores covered by the Purchase Order shall be subject to preliminary inspection and testing at any 
time prior to shipment and/or despatch and final inspection within a reasonable time after arrival at the 
place of delivery. The Inspector shall have the right to carry out the inspection and testing which include 
raw materials at manufacturer's work and at the time of actual despatch before and after completion of 
packing.  
  
The supplier shall inform the BUYER at least 21 days in advance of the exact place, date and time of 
rendering the stores for required inspection, provide free access to Inspectors during normal working 
hours at supplier's or his/its sub-supplier's works and places at their disposal, internal test reports, 
material/component test certificates, approved drawings and all useful means of performing, checking, 
marking, testing, inspection and final stamping at his own expenses. Stores offered without internal 
testing shall be treated as a lapse on the part of supplier. 
  
If, after receiving inspection call from the supplier/manufacturer the inspector on reaching the works 
finds that the equipment/materials offered for inspection is not fully ready or fails to meet vital 
requirements, it will be deemed to be a fake inspection call. Issue of a fake inspection call shall be 
treated as a serious lapse on the part of the supplier. 
  
In the event of rejection of stores due to defective workmanship/material/design or fake inspection call, 
the stores would be offered for re-inspection at the earliest. The BUYER shall have the right to deduct 
the cost of re-inspection from the supplier's invoices. 
  
 Even if inspections and tests are fully carried out, supplier shall not be absolved to any degree from 
their responsibilities to ensure that stores supplied, comply strictly with requirements, of the purchase 
order at the time of delivery, inspection on arrival at site, after its erection or start-up and guarantee 
period. 
  
In any case, the stores must be strictly in accordance with the Purchase order failing which the BUYER 
shall have the right to reject goods and hold the supplier liable for non-performance of contract. 
  
7. Maker's Test Certificate:  
  
Maker's Test Certificate shall be supplied by the supplier at the time of inspection. Failure to comply 
may cause delay in the issue of certificate of inspection and consequent delay in delivery and payment. 
  


8. Packing, Marking and Painting :  
  
A. The stores shall be despatched by the supplier adequately packed in appropriate  
  packing which should be suitable for sea and inland carriage and ensure complete    
  safety of goods from any kind of damage in transport both on sea and land and all   
  equipment should be properly lubricated.  
  
   B. Each package shall contain packing list in English. Each packing shall bear the  
       following marking in English, in indelible paint: 
  
(i) Address of the Ultimate Consignee (ii) Address of the Interim Consignee, if any (iii) Name of 
Railway Station for ultimate and interim consignee, (iv) Supplier's name (v) Name of Equipment (vi) 
Railway Station from where despatched (vii) Purchase Order No. & Date (viii) Package Number (ix) 
Gross Weight in Kg (x) Net Weight in Kg. (xi) Outer Dimension in Cms. (xii) TOP' 'Do NOT TURN 
OVER' 'HANDLE WITH CARE' etc. 
  
The package shall indicate the centre of gravity with a red vertical line, wherever required, together with 
marking for slings.  
  
The package which cannot be so marked shall have metal tags with the above marking on them. 
  
As far as possible, size of packings shall remain within the permissible limit allowed by the Indian 
Railways. If this is not possible, timely information will be given and necessary over dimension sanction 
obtained.  
   
9. Security Deposit :  
  
The successful tenderer shall be required to furnish security deposit equal to 5% of the value of  the 
contract within 7 days from the date of intimation of the acceptance of Purchase Order for due and 
  proper fulfilment of the contract. The security deposit is to be deposited in the form of unconditional 
irrevocable bank guarantee from a Nationalised Bank (if from any other bank the bank guarantee should 
  be duly countersigned by State Bank/Reserve Bank). The bank guarantee should remain valid till 
completion of supplies.  
  
10. Despatch Instructions :  
  
Despatches of stores will be arranged by Public Tariff rates. In case of FOR Station of Despatch stores 
shall be booked at full wagon rates whenever available and by the most economical route or by most 
economical tariff available. Failure to do so will render the supplier liable for any avoidable expenditure 
caused to the BUYER. 
  
11. Assembly, after sales service and training :  
  
IF required by the BUYER the supplier shall be fully responsible for the assembly of the equipment at 
destination site and completeness of the machinery from the angle of its end use. 
The supplier shall provide necessary "After Sales Service" and also impart training to the Consignee's 
staff in the operation and maintenance of the equipment free of cost to the satisfaction of the consignee. 
Furthermore, all tools and plants particularly heavy cranes, which are generally used as well as semi-
skilled and unskilled labour for the assembly of such machinery will be provided by the BUYER free of 


cost to the supplier with consumable stores, like fuel, oil, lubricants, battery acids, cotton waste, grease 
etc., free of cost for the purpose of starting the machines, testing and putting them into good working 
order. 
  
12. Respect of Delivery Date :  
  
The time and delivery date as agreed to between the BUYER and Supplier shall be the essence of the 
contract. No variation shall be permitted, except with prior authorisation in writing from the Buyer. 
Goods should be delivered securely packed and in good order and conditions at the place and within the 
time specified for their delivery. 
  
13. Penalty for late deliveries :  
  
The time and date of delivery of stores, materials, equipment as agreed to shall be deemed to be the 
essence of the contract. In case of delay in execution of the order beyond the date of delivery as agreed 
to for any reason, the BUYER shall recover from the supplier as penalty a sum equivalent to 0.5% of the 
value of the entire contract for every week of delay or part thereof limited to an aggregate of 5%. 
 
14. Risk Purchase on Default  
  
In case of default on the part of the supplier to supply all the stores or part thereof covered by the 
contract upto the standard/specifications within the contractual delivery period stipulated in the contract, 
the BUYER shall have the right to purchase such stores or other of similar description at the risk and 
cost of the supplier. However, supplier shall be liable to pay penalty under clause 13 above for resultant 
delay.  
  
15. Delay due to force majeure  
  
If any time during the continuance of the contract the performance in whole or part by either party on 
any obligation under the contract shall be prevented or delayed by reason of any war, hostility, 
 explosions, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, or other acts of God, then provided, notice of the 
happening of any such event is given by either party to the other within twenty one days from the date 
 of occurrence thereof, neither party shall be reason of such event be entitled to terminate this contract 
nor shall either party have any claim for damages against the other in respect of such non-performance 
and delay in performance and deliveries under the contract shall be resumed as soon as practicable after 
such event has come to an end or ceased to exist and the decision of the Chairman and Managing 
Director, EPI, New Delhi as to whether the deliveries so resumed shall be final and binding on both the 
parties. In case Force Majeure Condition persists for a period exceeding sixty (60) days, either party 
may at its option terminate the contract.  
BUYER shall be at liberty to take over from the supplier at a price to be fixed by the Chairman and 
Managing Director, EPI, New Delhi which shall be the final, all unused, undamaged and acceptable 
material, bought out components and stores in course of manufacture in the possession of the supplier at 
the time of such termination or portion thereof as the BUYER may deem fit. 
  
16. Rejection, Removal of Rejected Goods and Replacement  
  
In case the testing and inspection at any stage by inspectors reveal that the equipment, material and 
workmanship do not comply with the specifications and requirements, the same shall be removed by the 
Supplier at his/its own expenses and risk within the time allowed by the BUYER. The BUYER shall be 


at liberty to dispose of such rejected goods in such manner as he may think appropriate, in the event the 
supplier fails to remove the rejected goods within the period as aforesaid. 
All expenses incurred by the BUYER for such disposal shall be to the account of the supplier. The 
freight paid by the BUYER, if any, on the inward journey of the rejected material shall be reimbursed by 
the supplier to the BUYER before the rejected materials are removed by the Supplier. The supplier will 
have to proceed with the replacement of that equipment or part of equipment without claiming any extra 
payment if so required by the BUYER. The time taken for replacement in such event will not be added 
to the contractual delivery period. 
 
17. Warranty  
  
The supplier shall warrant that every material/plant, machinery and equipment to be supplied be new 
and free from all defects and faults in design, material, workmanship and manufacture and shall be of 
the highest quality.  
  
The items should be consistent with the established, recognised or stipulated standards for material of 
the type usually used for the purpose and in full conformity with the specifications and drawings or 
samples, if any. Equipment offered must be capable, during operation, of withstanding extreme dusty, 
wet, humid and sultry conditions. The warranty shall continue not withstanding inspection, payment, 
acceptance of tendered equipment and shall expire except in respect of complaints notified to supplier 
prior to such date within 12 months from the date of commissioning or 18 months from the date of 
despatch whichever is earlier.  
  
18. Performance Guarantee  
  
The supplier shall guarantee that any/all material used in execution of the Purchase Order shall be in 
strict compliance with charactesistics requirements and specifications agreed upon and that same shall 
be free from any defects.  
  
The supplier shall guarantee that all material and equipment shall be repaired or replaced as the case 
may be at his own expense in case the same have been found to be defective in respect of material, 
workmanship or smooth and rated operation within a period of 12 months after the same has been put in 
service or 18 months from the date of despatch of last consignment, whichever is earlier. The guarantee 
period for the replacement parts shall be 12 months starting from the date on which the replacement 
parts are commissioned. Acceptance by the BUYER or his inspectors of any equipment and materials or 
their replacement will not relieve the supplier of his/its responsibility concerning the above guarantee.  
  
19. Indemnity  
  
The supplier shall at all times indemnify the BUYER against all claims which may be made in respect of 
stores for infringement of any right protected by patent, registration of design or trade mark. Provided 
always that in the event of any claim in respect of alleged breach of patent, registered designs or trade 
mark being made against the BUYER, the BUYER shall notify the supplier of the same and the supplier 
shall at his own expense either settle any such dispute or conduct any litigation that may arise therefrom.  
  
The supplier shall not be liable for payment of any royalty, licence fee or other expenses in respect of or 
for making of patents or designs with respect to which he is, according to the terms of the contract, to be 
treated as an agent of the Government for the purpose of making use of the patent or trade mark of 
fulfilment of the contract. 


20. Spare Parts 
  
The supplier shall furnish itemised and priced list of spare parts required for two years normal operation 
of the equipment alongwith the quotation 
  
21. Drawings  
  
The supplier shall furnish the general arrangements and dimensional drawings in three sets within four 
weeks from date of placement of order. 
  
22. Literature of Equipment  
  
Following literature and documents for the equipment shall be supplied in five copies each free of cost 
alongwith the equipment, 
(a) Operator's instructions (b) Service Manual (c) Illustrated and detailed parts catalogues (d) 
Specifications (e) A list of service tools required for routine servicing of the equipment. 
  
23. Arbitration  
  
Except where otherwise provided for in the contract all questions and disputes relating to the meaning of 
the specifications, designs, drawings and instructions herein before mentioned and as to the quality of 
workmanship or materials used on the work or as to any other questions, claim, right matter or thing 
whatsoever if any, arising out of or relating to the contract, designs, drawings, specifications, estimates, 
instructions, orders or any contradictions or otherwise concerning the purchase order or the execution or 
failure to execute the same whether arising during the progress of the work or after the completion or 
abandonment thereof shall be referred to the sole arbitration of the Chairman and Managing 
Director/General Manager (accepting authority) of Engineering Projects (India) Ltd. and if the Chairman 
and Managing Director/General Manager is unable or unwilling to act to the sole arbitration some other 
person shall be appointed by the Chairman and Managing Director/General Manager willing to act as 
such arbitrator. There will be no objection if the arbitrator so appointed is an employee of Engineering 
Projects (India) Ltd., and that he had to deal with matters to which the contract relates and that in the 
course of his duties as such he had expressed views on all or any of the matters in disputes or difference. 
The arbitrator to whom the matter is originally referred being transferred or vacating his office or being 
unable to act for any reason, such Chairman and Managing Director/General Manager as aforesaid at the 
time of such transfer, vacation of office or inability to act, shall appoint another person to act as an 
arbitrator in accordance with the terms of the contract. Such person shall be entitled to proceed with the 
reference from the stage at which it was left by his predecessor. It is also a term of this contract that no 
person other than a person appointed by such Chairman and Managing Director/General Manager as 
aforesaid should act as arbitrator and if for any reason, that is not possible, the matter is not to be 
referred to arbitration at all.  
 
Cases where the amount of award in claim is Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees fifty thousand only) and above, the 
arbitrator shall give reasons for the award. 
  
Subject as aforesaid the provisions of the arbitration act 1940 or any statutory modification or re-
enactment thereof and the rules made thereunder and for time being in force shall apply to the arbitration 
proceedings under this clause.  


It is a term of the contract that the party invoking arbitration shall specify the disputes or dispute to be 
referred to arbitration under this clause together with the amount or amounts claimed in respect of each 
such dispute.  
  
The arbitrator may from time to time with consent of the parties enlarge the time, for making and 
publishing the award.  
  
The work under the contract shall, if reasonably possible continue during the arbitration proceedings.  
  
The arbitrator shall be deemed to have entered on the reference on the date he issues notice to both the 
parties fixing the date of the first hearing.  
  
The arbitrator shall give a separate award in respect of each disputes or difference referred to him.  
  
The avenue of arbitration shall be such place as maybe fixed by the Arbitrator in his sole discretion.  
  
The award of the arbitrator shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties to the contract. 
  
24. Court Jurisdiction  
  
Disputes of any nature that may arise in connection with the execution of the contract shall be subjected 
to the jurisdiction of courts situated in Delhi/New Delhi only. 
  
------------------------ -- 
  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                FormatNo: EPI/MMD/F-07 
                                                                                                     
  
Check List for Evaluation & Selection of Suppliers / Vendors  
  
1. Name 
  
2. Address 
  
3. Contact Person 
  
4. Proprietor 
  
5. a) Phone Nos. 
   
    b) Fax Nos. 
  
6. Items / Products 
  
7. Manufacturer 
    Distributor 
    Dealer 
    Stockist 


  
8. Facilities Available 
  
    a) Testing Facilities                             In House              Through External Agency 
i) For Incoming materials 
ii) For In process  
iii) For Final Product 
  
b)  Can Issue Test Certificate                         Yes              No 
  
c)        Details of Manufacturing Facilities 
  
d)        Products being manufactured 
(Product Catalogues) 
  
9. Annual Turn Over 
  
10. Whether ISO 9000 certified or not 
  
11. Whether IS certified or not 
                                                                                                 
  
12. Reference list of important customers during last five years 
  
13. Ability to give after sales service 
  
14. Sample sent or not 
  
      To Incharge MMD                               Signature of Vendor / Supplier 
       EPI                                                       Name 
                                                                    Designation 
                                                                    Date 
 
 
For use in EPI  
  
Data has been collected over phone verbally. 
  
  
                                                                       Signature of person collecting data 
 
  
Evaluation & Review  
                                                                            Yes                              No 
Reviewed the details of vendor 
  
Product is suitable 
  
If Yes basis 


Sample checked 
  
Specification checked 
  
Suppliers details reviewed 
  
Enjoys goodwill / reputation 
  
Testing facilities adequate 
Enquiries from customers 
of sub suppliers 
  
Past performance with EPI 
                                                 Approved                                    Reviewed 
  
                                                 Signature                                     Signature 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
Serial Page No. 195 
 

SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

 
1.   
GENERAL     
 
1.1    The following Special Conditions shall be read in conjunction with the General Conditions of 

Contracts, IAFW-2249 (1989 Print) and IAFW-1779A (Revised 1955) including Errata/ 
Amendments thereto.   If any provisions in these Special Conditions are at variance with the 
provision in the above mentioned documents the provisions made hereinafter shall be 
deemed to take precedence there over. 
 
1.2  
The work under this contract shall be carried out in accordance with Schedule “A”, the 
particular specifications, drawings and other provisions in MES Schedule.                                             
 
1.3  
The term ‘General Specifications’ referred to herein before as well as referred to in IAFW-
2249 (General Conditions of Contracts) shall mean the specifications contained in the MES 
Schedule. 
 
1.4  
General Rules, Specifications, Special Conditions and all preambles in the MES Schedules 
shall be deemed to apply to the work under this contract. In case of any discrepancy, the 
provisions in these documents shall take precedence over the aforesaid provisions in the 
MES Schedule. 
 
1.5 
Chases/holes, etc, made in concrete, brick work, stone masonry, and floors and in any other 
situations for carrying out the various items of work as required or as directed by the 
Engineer-in-Charge shall be made good in the same mortar/concrete as specified for that 
portion of the work. 
 
2 .     
INSPECTION OF SITE BY THE TENDERER: 
 
2.1  
The tenderers shall contact the Garrison Engineer for the purpose of the inspection of site(s) 
and relevant documents other than those sent herewith, who will give reasonable facilities 
for this purpose.  The tenderers shall also make themselves familiar with working conditions, 
accessibility of site(s), availability of materials and such other cogent condition etc that may 
affect the entire completion of work under this contract. 
 
2.2  
The tenderers shall be deemed to referred to above irrespective of have visited the site(s) 
and made themselves familiar with the working conditions etc, referred to above whether 
they actually inspect the site(s) or not.  No extra payment consequent on any mistake or 
misunderstanding or otherwise on this account will be allowed. 
 
3. 
CONDITIONS OF WORKING AND ISSUE OF SECURITY PASSES ETC.    
 
3.1  
The work lies in  restricted area.   Site plan is enclosed to tender documents.  
 
3.2 
PERMISSION TO ENTER THE RESTRICTED AREA:   Permission to enter the restricted 
area at the time of submission of tenders can be obtained through the Garrison Engineer.  
Tenderers are advised to send prior intimation of their agents, representatives, etc if any, 
dates and time of their proposed visit so that necessary arrangements may be made by GE 
to ensure admission.  Whether tenderer visits the site or not, he shall be deemed to have 
full knowledge of the restrictions of entering into/exit from and working within the restricted 
area, once he submits his quoted tender. 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 196  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

3.3      ISSUE OF PHOTO PASSES:   Photo passes will be issued to the contractor, his agent, 

employees, representative and work people etc. The contractor shall get the antecedents of 
the people likely to be employed by him verified from Civil Police and the police verification 
report shall be enclosed with the application requesting for issue of passes. The application 
for issue of passes shall contain the information like name and address of the person likely 
to be employed, Contract Agreement Number, date of commencement and completion. The 
application must have endorsement of concerned Garrison Engineer. The passes issued 
initially will be valid for one month and thereafter renewed for every three months. The 
contractor shall apply for issue of passes well in advance. The passes will be issued on 
payment of ` 5/- each.  In case of loss of pass, a fine of ` 1000/- for each pass lost will be 
charged for the first loss. ` 2500/- for the second loss and ` 3500/- for the third & pass will 
not be reissued.  The contractor shall return any specific / all the passes issued to him on 
completion of the work or at any time on demand by the department. The contractor shall 
be responsible for the conduct and actions of his workmen, agents & representatives.  
 
 
 
  
3.4 
ENTRY/EXIT:  T he contractor, his agents, representative, workmen, etc and his materials, 
carts, trucks or other means of transport, etc, will be allowed to enter through and leave 
from only such gate or gates and at such times as the GE`s or authorities in-charge of the 
restricted areas may at their sole discretion permit to be used.  The contractor’s authorised 
representative is required to be present at the place of entry and exit for the purpose of 
identifying his carts, trucks, etc to the personnel in-charge of the security of restricted area. 
 
3.4.1   Contractor shall provide / construct a separate gate as directed by GE and users for entry of 

his labour. A shed as required at entry point shall also be provided / constructed by 
contractor. A separate entry shall be created for entry of materials / vehicles / Equipment’s 
etc., at the location as directed by Engineer-in-Charge. 
 
3.4.2   Lumpsum quoted shall be deemed to be inclusive of above all provisions, nothing additional 

cost will be paid to the contractor on this account. 

 
3.4.3   After completion of Phase –I&II, the entire work shall be removed from the site and the 

same will become the property of the contractor. Cost of the above provision shall be 
deemed to be included in the unit rates/amount quoted by the contractor and no extra 
claim will be admissible on this account. The work related to entry/exit arrangement shall 
be completed before commencement of the main work. The contractor shall make good the 
disturbed surfaces to match with the original all as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge 
without any extra cost.  

3.5      WORKING CONDITION:  The contractor will be permitted to work at site up to 1700 

hours except on Saturday, Sunday and other holidays. However, permission may be granted 
at the discretion of the department to work after 1700 hours and Saturday, Sunday and 
other holidays on the request of the contractor. The contractor shall apply well in advance 
(at least 7 days in advance) for such permission. The contractor shall have no claim for 
extra payment or compensation what so ever on account of denial of permission to work 
after 1700 hours or on Saturday, Sundays and on other holidays.  The exact working hours, 
days and non-working days observed for the restricted areas, where the work are to be 
carried out shall be deemed to have been ascertained by the contractor before submitting 
his tender. 
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 197  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

3.6  
SEARCH :  The persons in possession of photo passes will only be permitted to enter into 
the restricted area. The contractor, his supervisor, representatives and workmen, materials 
cars, vehicles trucks etc are liable to search at every time of entry and exist and also any 
number of times inside the area.  The contractor shall have no claim on account of loss of 
time on this amount. The contractor and his agents, employees and work people shall also 
observe all other rules promulgated by the authority controlling the installation/area in 
which the work is to be carried out, i.e., prohibition of smoking and lighting, fire 
precautions, keeping to specific route, observing specified timings. 
 
3.7 
FEMALE SEARCHER:   If the contractor desires to employ female labour on works to be 
carried out inside the area of factory, depot, park, etc and female searcher is not borne on 
the authorised strength of the Factory, Depot, Park, etc at the time of submission of the 
tender, he shall be deemed to have allowed in his tender for pay and allowances, etc for a 
female searcher (Class IV/Group `D` servant) calculated for the period female labour is 
employed by him inside that area.  If more than one contractor employs female labour in 
addition to the authorized strength of the Factory, Depot, Park, etc the salary and 
allowances paid to the additional female searcher shall be distributed on an equitable basis 
between the contractor employing female labour taking into consideration the value and 
period of completion of their contracts.  The GE`s decision in regard to the amount 
recoverable on this account from any contractor shall be final and binding. 
 
3.8 
WORKING HOURS :  The contractor shall be allowed to work during normal working hours.  
However, the contractor or his workman shall be permitted to work on Saturday, Sunday (s) 
holiday or after normal working hours only with prior written permission from the Garrison 
Engineer.  If in order to complete the entire work under this contract within the stipulated 
period of completion, the contractor wants to carryout multiple shift work, he will be 
allowed to do so with prior written permission from the GE and without any extra cost to 
the Government.  
 
3.9  
WORKS ON HOLIDAYS:   The contractor shall not carry out any work on gazetted holiday, 
weekly holidays and other non-working days except when he is specially authorised in 
writing to do so by the GE.  The GE may at his sole discretion declare any day as holiday or 
non-working day without assigning any reasons for such declarations. 
 
3.10   ACCESS TO RESTRICTED AREA AFTER COMPLETION OF WORKS:   After the works 

are completed and surplus stores, etc removed by contractor or his agents, or 
representatives or workmen etc they may not be allowed to have access to the restricted 
area except for attending any rectification of defects, pointed out to him by the GE. 
 
3.11 
FIRE PRECAUTIONS:  T he contractor, his agents, representatives, workmen, etc shall 
strictly observe the orders pertaining to fire precautions prevailing within the restricted 
area.  Motor transport vehicles, any allowed by authorities to enter the restricted area, must 
be fitted with serviceable fire extinguishers. 
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 198  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

4.    
CONTRACTOR'S REPRESENTATIVES AND WORKMEN :  
 
4.1   
Contractor attention is invited to condition 25 of IAFW-2249. The contractor shall employ 
only Indian Nationals as his representatives, servants and verify their antecedents and 
loyalty before employing them for the works.  He shall ensure that no person of doubtful 
antecedents and Nationality is in any way, associated with works.   If for reasons of 
technical collaboration or other considerations, the employment of any foreign national is 
unavoidable, the contractor shall furnish full particulars to this effect to the Accepting 
Officer at the time of submission of his tender.  The contractor shall on demand by the 
Engineer-in-Charge submit list of his agents, employees and working people concerned and 
shall satisfy the Engineer-in-Charge as to the bonafide of such people. The Engineer-in-
Charge shall have full powers and without giving any reason may order the contractor to 
immediately cease to employ, in connection with this contract, any representative, agent, 
servants and workmen or employees whose continued employment is in his opinion 
undesirable. The contractor shall not be allowed any compensation on this account. 
 
4.2  
The Engineer-in-Charge shall at his discretion have the right to issue passes as per rules 
and regulations of the installation/area in force to control the admission of the contractor, 
his agents, and employees and work people to the site of the work or any part thereof.  
Passes should be returned at any time on demand by the Engineer-in-Charge or the 
authorities concerned and in any case on completion of works. 
  
 
4.3  
The contractor and his agents, employees and work people shall observe all the rules 
promulgated by the authority controlling installations/area in which the work is to be carried 
out e.g., prohibition of smoking and lighting, fire precautions, search of persons on entry 
and exit, keeping to specific routes, observing specified timing, etc.  Nothing extra shall be 
admissible for any man-hour etc lost on this account.  
 
5.       MINIMUM WAGES PAYABLE TO LABOUR 
 
5.1  
Refer Condition 58 of IAFW-2249, the contractor shall not pay wages lower than minimum 
wages for labour as fixed by the Government of India/State Government whichever is 
higher. 
 
5.2     Schedule of minimum fair wages is not enclosed along with the tender, but the contractor is 

deemed to have full knowledge regarding the minimum fair wages payable to the labour as 
legally effective on the day of submission of tender irrespective of the fact, the gazette 
notification may not have been published or that he was unaware of the increase in the 
minimum wages.  For all purposes, the minimum wages legally effective on the date of 
receipt of tender shall be the basis. The minimum wages legally effective referred above are 
the minimum wages notified in Gazette or any local regulations whichever is higher. 
 
5.3 
The contractor shall have no claim whatsoever, if on account of local factor and regulations, 
he is required to pay the wages in excess of minimum wages as described above during the 
execution of work. 
 
6 .  
ROYALTY  (Reference condition 14 of General Conditions of Contracts (IAFW-2249)  
 
6.1 
No quarries on charge of department are available. The contractor shall make his own 
arrangements for obtaining land for quarrying sand/stones and obtaining other materials 
required for the work. Payment of royalties of such materials is to be borne by the 
contractor.  
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 199  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

7.    
AVAILABILITY OF DEFENCE LAND (Ref condition 24 of IAFW-2249)    
 
7.1 
The contractor shall be allotted land in the area as marked on the layout plan(s) for the 
purpose of erection of temporary shed for storage of materials only at a nominal rent of  

Rs.' 1/- per year or part thereof in respect of each and every separate area of land allotted 
to him. Plot of land so allotted as marked in site plan can be used for accommodation of 
labour and canteen, however user can order contractor to vacate the area as and when 
user required without any excuse. 
 
8. 
SUPPLY OF WATER   
 
8.1. 
Refer Condition – 31 of General Conditions of Contracts IAFW – 2249 and Clause 1.13 of 
MES Schedule Part – I. 
 
8.2. 
Water will be supplied by DGNP (V) at the point[s] marked on site plan / as decided by the 
GE at MRS location. The exact location of the water point [s] will be shown by the GE.  
Water meters to register the quantum of supply of water shall be provided and installed by 
the Contractor.  Contractor shall provide all necessary pipes, fittings, etc, from the tapping 
point in order to ensure a proper and suitable supply of water for execution of work at his 
own cost. All contractor’s installations and the layout of pipe line etc as proposed by him 
shall be as per plan approved by the Engineer-in-Charge / GE. The contractor will be 
charged for the water drawn for execution of works at  Rs. 65.00 per 1000 litres  of water 
consumed.   Please note that water take off point is at Main Receiving Station only. 
Contractor has to make his own arrangement as required at site to transport the water from 
MRS point. 
 
8.3. 
The contractor shall ensure safety of water meter by providing necessary meter box with 
locking arrangement at his own cost. The key of the meter box shall be kept with the 
concerned AGE E/M for the subject work. Initial reading of water meter shall be recorded 
and signed jointly by the rep of the contractor and Engineer-in-Charge E/M in a pucca 
bound register. Necessary interim readings shall be recorded during the progress of work, 
duly signed by Engineer-in-Charge E/M and contractor’s representative, so that the recovery 
towards water charges are made from each RAR payments.    
 
8.4. 
As the water supply by DGNP is likely to be intermittent, the contractor shall make his own 
arrangements for storing the water required for the works, labour and workmen, etc. at his 
own expense. In the event of breakdown of DGNP supply of water or in the event of the 
said supply of water becoming intermittent and during summer season there is likelihood of 
no supply of water, the contractor shall make his own arrangements to bring water from his 
own source without stopping progress of work. The water so arranged shall be got tested 
from Govt. Engineering College / Govt. lab and got approved from GE before using in the 
work. The contractor shall have no claim whatsoever on account of extra expenditure 
incurred in bringing water from outside due to shortage of water with DGNP including 
testing of the same and his unit rate shall be deemed to include this aspect.” 
 
9.  
SUPPLY OF ELECTRICITY  
 
9.1.  
Electric supply required for the work will not be made available by department. Contractor 
shall make his own arrangements for electric supply required for the work, no compensation 
whatsoever shall be allowed on this account. 
 
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 200  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

10.  
CONTRACT LABOUR REGULATION AND ABOLITION ACT 
 
10.1  The contractor shall be bound by the Labour Regulation and Abolition Act 1970 and rules 

framed there under for the workmen employed on the work.  No contractor can undertake 
or execute his work without a license issued by Licensing Officer as per Labour Laws in 
force. 
 
11.       CO-OPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES AT SITE OF WORK 
 
11.1  The contractor shall permit free access and generally afford reasonable facilities and usual 

conveniences to other agencies or departmental workmen to carry out their part of the 
work if any under separate arrangements. The contractor will not be allowed any extra 
payment on this account.   
 
12.  
INDIAN STANDARDS 
 
12.1  Materials brought by the contractor for incorporation in the work shall, unless otherwise 

specified in the particular specifications comply with the requirement of the latest relevant 
Indian Standards (IS). 
 
13    
PERIOD OF KEEPING THE TENDER OPEN (VALIDITY OF TENDER)   
 
13.1 
The tender shall remain open for acceptance for a period  90 (Ninety)  days from the bid 
submission end date. 
 
14.     SECURITY OF CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS 
 
14.1 
Contractor’s special attention is drawn to condition 2A and 3 of IAFW-2249 (General 
Conditions of Contracts). The contractor shall not communicate any classified information 
regarding the work to any one unconnected with this contract. The contractor shall also not 
make copies of the design/drawings and other documents furnished to him in respect of the 
work and shall return all documents on completion of the works or earlier on termination of 
the contract.  The contractor shall along with the final bill attach a receipt of his having 
returned the classified documents as per condition 3 of IAFW-2249 (General Conditions of 
Contracts). 
 
15. 
RECORD OF MATERIALS A N D PURCHASE VOUCHERS   

 
15.1 
The quantity of materials such as paints, water proofing compound, chemicals, and the like 
as applicable and as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge (The quantity of which cannot be 
checked after incorporation in the work) shall be recorded in measurement book and signed 
by the contractor and the Engineer-in-Charge as a check to ensure that the required 
quantity had been brought to site for incorporation in the work.  
 
15.2    Materials brought to site shall be stored as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge and those 

already recorded in measurement book shall be suitably marked for identification. The 
contractor shall ensure that the materials are brought to site, in original sealed 
container/packing bearing manufacturers marking except in the case of the procurement of 
material(s) being less than smallest packing. 
 
15.3  Contractor shall produce original receipted vouchers/ invoices from manufacturers and/or 

their authorized dealers/ agents/ distributors only for the full quantity of the following 
materials (as applicable) and any other item as asked by Accepting Officer/ GE as pre-
requisite before claiming any payment and the same will be defaced by Engineer-in-Charge 
as a token of verification, indicating reference to the contract number, under his dated 
signature.  GE shall personally ensure that the contractor in each case has produced the 
receipted vouchers before making RAR payment to the contractor:- 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 201  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

(a)  
Water proofing compound  (b)  
Chemical for anti-termite treatment  
(c)  
Paints including primer       (d)  
UPVC/ Cast Iron/ DI/MS/GI pipes and fittings  
(e)  
Sanitary fittings                 (f)  
Factory made door, window and ventilator 
(h)  
Floor and wall tiles.           (h)  
Builders Hardware   
(i) 
Tarfelt/ bituminous products (j)  
Admixtures and chemicals for concrete 
(k)  
Salt glazed stone ware pipes  (l)  
Electrical and water supply fittings and fixtures.  
(m)  
Cables / wires / LT/HT panels and including lifts .  
 
16. 
CLEANING DOWN (Refer Condition 49 of IAFW-2249).    

16.1 
The contractor shall clean all floors, remove cement , lime or paint drops, clean joinery, 
glass panels etc., touch up all paint work and carry out all necessary items of work in 
connection therewith  and the contractor shall also remove from the site all unused stores 
and materials, tools and plants, equipment, scaffolding, temporary buildings, huts and like 
belonging to the contractor provided for the execution of the work under this contract and 
the site of work shall be cleared off rubbish and all waste materials by the contractor and 
deliver the site in neat, clean and tidy manner to the satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge 
on or before the date of completion.  Nothing extra whatsoever shall be paid to the 
contractor for such clearance of site and the contract sum quoted shall be deemed to 
include the same.  
17 .  
CONTRACTOR’S PLANT/EQ U IPMENT AT SITE :  
 

(a) 
The contractor shall furnish to the Engineer-in-Charge a distribution return of his 
plant/ equipment on the site of works stating the following particulars: - 

 

(i) 
Particulars of plant/equipment i.e., Make, Manufacture’s No., Model No. if 
any, Registration No., if any, capacity, year of manufacture, year of purchase 
etc.  

(ii) 
Total quantity on site of work. 

(iii)  
Location indicating quantity at the site of work. 

 

(b)  
For the purpose of this condition, plant/equipment shall include vehicles, trucks and 
Lorries but not the workmen’s tools and or any manually operated tools/equipment. 
 

(c)  
The Engineer-in-Charge shall record the particulars supplied by the contractor as 
aforesaid, in the works diary and send a return to GE for record in his office. 
 

(d)  
The first return shall be submitted immediately after any plant of equipment is 
brought to the site.  Thereafter every week changes in the return shall be furnished 
in the following form:- 
Sl No  
Particulars of  Total No. at   Location 
   Remarks 
 
 
Plant/Eqpt 
 
Site of work 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Addition since___________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reduction since__________ 
 
(e)  
A complete return showing the upto-date position of plant/equipment at site shall be 
submitted on 15 th  of every month till the works are completed and the site cleared. 
 

(f)  
The contractor’s attention is invited to condition 34 of IAFW-2249 General 
Conditions of Contracts according to which no tool, plant/equipment shall be 
removed off the site without written approval of the GE. 
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 202  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

18. 
APPROACHES 
 
18.1 
Contractor shall make suitable temporary approaches to work site, if required after 
obtaining approval in writing of the GE to the layout of such approaches, to convey men, 
materials, plants and machinery required for the satisfactory completion of work and on 
completion of work the site shall be cleared of all temporary approaches. The tendered 
rates shall, interalia, be deemed to include for the aforesaid contingencies. 
          
19 & 20 
- BLANK -  
 
21. 
OFFICIAL SECRET ACT:  Refer condition 2 of IAFW-2249.    
 
21.1 
The contractor's attention is invited to the Indian Official Secret Act Particularly Section 5 
thereof.      
 
22. 
GST ON WORKS CONTRA C TS BY STATE AND CENTRAL GOVERNMENT, OCTROI 
AND OTHER DUES 

22.1  The tendered rates shall be deemed to include all duties, Octroi, GST on Works Contract 

and labour welfare cess, levies or any other taxes/duty etc. 
 
22.2   -BLANK-  
 
22.3 
GST (Goods and Services Tax) is applicable for the subject work. 

 
23.   
DAMAGE TO OTHER STRUCTURE/BUILDING 
 
23.1 
Any damage caused to the existing structure (s) during the execution of the work shall be 
made good by the contractor at his cost and the site of work left clean and tidy on 
completion.  Rectification/making good shall confirm to the standard of workmanship 
originally used in the work and finished work shall match with the existing work in all 
respects to the entire satisfaction of Engineer- in-Charge.  In case of any dispute on this 
account the matter shall be referred to the GE, whose decision in writing shall be final, 
conclusive and binding. 
 
24.  
FOREIGN EXCHANGE/IMPORT LICENSE :  No foreign exchange and/or import license 
will be arranged by the Department in connection with the work under this contract. 
 
25. 
LOSS OR DAMAGE ON ACCOUNT OF ENEMY ACTION 

 

(a) 
If as a result of enemy action, the contractor suffers any loss or damage, the Govt 
shall reimburse to the contractor such loss or damage, to the extent and in the 
manner hereinafter provided: 
 

(i)  
The loss suffered by him on account of any damage or destruction of his 
plant/equipment (as defined in condition 17(b) above) or materials or any 
part of parts thereof.  The amount of loss assessed by the Accepting Officer 
of the contract on this account shall be final and binding. 

 
(ii) 
Compensation paid by him under any law for the time being in force to any 
workmen employed by him for any injury caused to him or the workmen’s 
legal successors for loss of the workmen’s life. 
 
(b) 
No reimbursement shall be made nor shall any compensation be payable under the 
above provisions unless the contractor had taken Air Defence Precautions ordered in 
writing by GE or in the absence of such orders, reasonable precautions.  No 
reimbursement shall be made nor shall any compensation be payable for any 
plant/equipment or materials not lying on the site of work at the time of enemy 
action. 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 203  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

26.   
PERMIT FROM LOCAL AUTHORITIES FOR PLYING VEHICLES :  
 
26.1 
Contractor shall make his own arrangements for obtaining necessary permit from local 
authorities for plying his vehicles for the work in accordance with the rules and regulations 
of the land.         
 
27.  
REGISTRATION FEE TRADE TAX. INCOME-TAX ETC. : 
 
27.1 
Tendered contract sum amount shall also be deemed to include the payment of all taxes 
like registration fee, if any, Trade tax.  Income Tax and other taxes/levies to be paid to the 
Govt of AP or Central Govt., already in force and as may be modified from time to time.  
The contractor may ascertain full details in this respect from the concerned departments. 

 
28.  
RECORD OF CONSUMPTION OF CEMENT: 
 
28.1 
For the purpose of keeping a record of cement procured and consumed in works the 
contractor shall maintain a pucca bound register in the form approved by the Engineer-in-
Charge showing daily consumption quantity used in works and the balance in hand.  The 
contractor’s representative and the Engineer-in-Charge shall sign the daily in token of their 
verification of its correctness.  The check will not, however, absolve the contractor of his 
responsibility to justify the consumption of cement at the time of finalisation of his 
accounts. The register shall be kept at site in the safe custody of the contractor during 
progress of the work and shall, on demand, be produced for verification of inspecting 
officers. 

 
29.       BLANK 

 
30. 
QUALIFIED TRADESMEN: 

 
30.1 
In compliance with the condition 26 of IAFW-2249 (General conditions of contracts) the 
contractor shall employ skilled/semi-skilled tradesmen who are qualified and possessing 
certificate in particular trade from Industrial Training Institute (ITI)/National Institute of 
Construction Management and Research (NICMAR)/Similar reputed and recognized 
institutes by State/Central Government to execute the works of their respective trade.  The 
number of such qualified tradesmen shall not be less than 25% of total skilled/semi-skilled 
tradesmen required in each trade.  The contractor shall submit the list of such tradesmen 
along with requisite certificates to GE for verification and approval.  If the tradesmen are 
found to have inadequate skill to execute the work of their trades, leading to un-satisfactory 
workmanship, the contractor shall remove such tradesmen within a week after written 
notice to this effect by the GE and shall engage other qualified tradesmen after prior 
approval of GE.  GE’s decision whether a particular tradesman possesses requisite 
qualification, skill and expertise commensurate with nature of work shall be final and 
binding.  No compensation whatsoever on this account shall be admissible. 

 
31. 
SETTING UP OF SITE LABORATORY BY THE CONTRACTOR 

 
31.1 
The contractor shall establish the site laboratory within 30 days of date of commencement 
of work as per Work Order No.1 within the area directed by GE with the following 
equipment’s/ instruments as well as the equipment’s or any other equipment which 
obviously required at site for immediate testing which can be feasible to provide at site as 
per the requirement of CA and as directed by GE without any extra cost to the Govt. 
 
(i) 
Compressive (Crushing) strength testing machine. 
 
(ii) 
Timber moisture content meter. 
 
(iii) 
Weight/Weighing measuring machine. 
 
(iv) 
Sieve set both for fine and coarse aggregate. 
 
(v) 
Cube moulds for cement testing and concrete testing. 
 
(vi) 
Cone for slump test. 
 
(vii) 
Field proctor density test equipment. 
 
(viii) 
Cement testing machine for initial/final setting/consistency. 
 
(ix) 
Working platform. 

 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 204  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

31.2 
In addition to the above equipment/instruments, any additional requirement as per CA 
provisions and as approved by GE shall be arranged by the contractor without any extra cost. 
 
31.3 
A list of equipment/instruments with their brief details viz, capacity/size, least count as 
applicable, shall be submitted by the contractor to GE approval within 02 weeks of 
placement of Work Order No.1. 
 
31.4 
After obtaining approved list of equipment/instruments from GE, site lab shall be 
established by the contractor and face reported by the contractor to GE in writing who will 
verify the fact and satisfy himself of the facilities provided, condition of the 
equipment/instruments, their calibration certificate etc. Thereafter GE shall issue a 
certificate to this effect in writing.  Listing out equipment particulars etc. Only after issue of 
this certificate by GE, the tests shall be carried out and materials so approved shall be 
incorporated in the work.  If any equipment/instrument is found unsuitable by GE, the same 
shall be removed/corrected without any extra cost of Government and tests on these 
equipments shall be carried out only after taking written approval from GE. 
 
31.5 
The above said equipments/instruments as mentioned above shall be exclusively used for 
this subject contract only by the department and by the contractor.  The contractor shall 
employ a Qualified/experienced Lab technician to carry out the material testing as per 
procedures laid down in relevant IS Codes as amended from time to time. 
 
31.6 
Only after the completion of the subject work in all respects and as approved by GE, then 
only the contractor shall remove the site laboratory equipments/instruments from the site. 
 
31.7 
All equipments/plants shall be got calibrated initially by the contractor at his own cost from 
competent agency and calibration certificate for each equipment shall be submitted to the 
GE for record.  Thereafter periodical calibration of the equipments as per laid down 
periodicity will be got carried out by the contractor from competent authority during 
currency of the contract till completion of the work in all respects.  Periodic calibration 
certificate will also be submitted to the GE for record. 
 
31.8 
The cost for the equipment’s/instruments including calibration etc, as specified above shall 
be included in the lump sum and no extra payment for any deviation on this account shall 
be paid to the contractor. 
 
31.9 
For further details refer Particular Specifications here in after. 
 
31.10. The Contractor shall strictly follow, at all stages of work, the stipulations contained in the 

Indian Standard Safety Code or its equivalent British Standard and the provisions of the 
safety code and the provisions of the safety rules as specified in the General Conditions of 
the Contract for ensuring safety of men and materials. 
 
32.  
SPECIMEN SPECIAL CONDITION FOR ADOPTION OF CRITICAL PATH METHOD IN LIEU OF TIME 
AND PROGRESS CHART:-  
 

(a) 
 The time and progress chart to be prepared as per Condition 11 of General 
Conditions of Contracts (IAFW-2249) shall consist of detailed network analysis and a 
time schedule.  The critical path network will be drawn jointly by the GE and the 
contractor soon after acceptance of tender.  The time scheduling of the activities will 
be done by the contractor so as to finish the work within the stipulated time.  On 
completion of the time schedule a firm calendar date schedule, will be prepared and 
submitted by the contractor to the GE, who will approve it after due scrutiny.  The 
schedule will be submitted in four copies within two weeks from the date of handing 
over the site 
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 205  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

(b)    During the currency of the work, the contractor is expected to adhere to the time 

schedule and this adherence will be a part of contractor’s performance under the 
contract.  During the execution of the work, the contractor is expected to participate 
in the reviews and updating of the network under taken by the GE.  These reviews 
may be undertaken at the discretion of the GE, either as a periodical appraisal 
measure or when the quantum of work ordered on the contractor is substantially 
changed through deviation orders or amendments.  Any revisions of the schedule as 
a result of the review will be submitted by the contractor to the GE within a week 
who will approve it after due scrutiny.  The contractor will adhere to the revised 
schedule thereafter.  In case of contractor disagreeing with revised schedule the 
same will be referred to the Accepting Officer, whose decision will be final, 
conclusive and binding.  GE`s approval to the revised schedule resulting in a 
completion date beyond the stipulated date of completion shall not automatically 
amount to a grant of extension of time.  Extension of time shall be considered and 
decided by the appropriate authority mentioned in condition 11 of IAFW-2249 and 
separately regulated. 
 
(c) 
The Contractors shall mobilise an employ sufficient resources to achieve the detailed 
Schedule within the broad frame work of the accepted method of working and 
safety.   
 
(d) 
No additional payment will be made to the contractor for any multiple shift work or 
other incentive methods contemplated by him in his work schedule even though the 
time schedule is approved by the department. 
 
33.  
CONCILIATION 

 

(a) 
Consequent to enactment of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, and with an 
objective to encourage settlement of disputes through conciliation, President has 
accorded sanction to include special Condition for Conciliation is the MES contracts 
to be concluded by Zonal/Project Chief Engineers. Amendment of Conciliation Act 
1996 as under:- 
 

(i)  
As per Sub Section 5 of Section 12 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 
inserted through Arbitration & Conciliation (Amendment) Act 2015, any 
person who has past or present relation with either of the parties shall be 
intelligible for appointment as arbitrator. However, under the proviso of Sub 
Section 5 of Section 12, parties may agree for waival of this provision by an 
express agreement in writing. 
 
(ii)  
A Sample of written agreement is hereby enclosed as annexure to this 
contract and either of parties can initiate the agreement and forward to the 
other party. The second party shall forward this to the appointing authority 
duly signed, if agreed. 

(iii)  
The agreement gives waival only to Sub Section 5 of Section 12 Arbitration 
and Conciliation act 1996. However, all the other sections of the arbitration 
and Conciliation (amendment) Act 2015 shall be applicable. 

(b) 
On finalization of conciliation proceedings, the settlement agreement shall be signed 
by Accepting Officer on behalf of Union of India after ascertaining the availability of 
funds. 
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 206  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

(c) 
In case the net total amount of payment involved in the settlement agreement 
exceeds Rs. 2.00 lakhs, Accepting Officer will consult next higher authority i.e 
DGNP(V) and obtain clearance before conclusion of Conciliation proceedings. 
 
(d) 
The amount of settlement agreement shall be treated as as agreed amount payable 
under the contract and such payment shall be processed through a hand receipt. 
 
33.1.   SCOPE OF CONCILIATION 
 
33.1.1 This is applicable to contract concluded by Zonal/Project Chief Engineers. 
 
33.1.2 The scope of conciliation shall be restricted to the following types of disputes with financial 

limits as indicated therein: - 
 
(a) 
Disputes relating to levy of compensation for delay in completion irrespective actual 
amount of compensation. 
(b) 
Disputes relating to technical examination of works. 
(c) 
Disputes relating to interpretation of the provisions of the contract with reference to 
the application to parties. 
(d) 
Disputes relating to non-return of schedule 'B' store over issued to contractor. 
(e) 
Any other dispute having fair chances of being resolved by conciliation and 
considered fit to be referred to conciliation by the parties. 
For item (b), (c), (d) and (e) each as stated above the financial limit shall be Rupees two 
lakhs or one percent of the contract amount whichever is less. 
 
33.2    COMMENCEMENT OF CONCILIATION PROCEEDINGS 
 

(a) 
The party initiating conciliation shall send to the other party a written invitation to 
conciliate, briefly identifying the subject of the dispute. 

 
(b) 
Conciliation proceedings shall commence when, the other party accepts in writing 
the invitation to conciliate. 

 
(c) 
If the other party rejects the invitation, there will be no conciliation proceedings. If 
the party initiating conciliation does not receive a reply within 30 days from the date 
on which he sends or within such other periods of time as specified in the invitation, 
he may elect to treat this as a rejection of the invitation to conciliate and if he so 
elects, he shall inform in writing the other party accordingly. 
 
33.3      NUMBER OF CONCILIATIONS:  There shall be a Sole Conciliator. 
 
33.4     APPOINTMENT OF CONCILIATOR  :  All disputes brought out in para 33.1.2 (a) to (c) 

above shall be referred to the sole conciliator viz. Serving Officer not below the rank of 
Superintending Engineer/Superintending Engineer (QS&C) having degree in Engineering or 
equivalent or having passed final/direct final examination of sub division II of Institution of 
Surveyors (India) to be appointed by the Director General Naval Projects,  Visakhapatnam 
or in his absence  the  Officer Officiating as the Director General specifically delegated by 
the DG in writing. 
 
33.5     STATUS OF EFFECT OF SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT 
 

The settlement agreement signed by the parties as a result of conciliation proceedings shall 
have the same status and effect as it is an arbitral award on agreed terms. 
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 207  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

34.  
MATERIALS AND SAMPLES 
 
(a) 
Refer Condition 10 of IAFW-2249. 
 
(b) 
The materials and articles, which have been specified from certain makers/ 
manufacturers, shall be of makes/manufactures as specified.  If the manufacturers 
specified in tender documents make both ISI marked and conforming to ISI, the 
materials/articles shall be ISI marked. 
 
(c) 
The materials and articles, which have not been specified in tender documents by 
makes/manufacturers, shall be as under:- 

 
(i) 
If ISI marked materials are being manufactured the same shall be ISI 
marked.  For list of ISI marked manufacturers refer website of BIS i.e. 
www.bis.org.in. 
 
(ii) 
If ISI marked materials are not being manufactured the same shall be 
conforming to IS specifications. 
 
(d) 
Materials of local origin shall be as specified and conforming to samples kept in GE’s 
office. The tenderer is advised to inspect sample of materials which are displayed in 
the office of GE, before submitting his tender. The tenderer shall be deemed to have 
inspected the samples and satisfied himself as to the nature and quality of materials, 
he is required to incorporate in the work irrespective of whether he has actually 
inspected them or not. 

 
(e) 
The contractor shall not procure materials and articles unless the samples are first 
got approved by the GE. 
 
35.  
HANDING OVER OF SITE 
 
35.1 
Site for execution of work will be available as soon as the work is awarded.  In case it is not 
possible to make the entire site available on the award of work, the contractor will have to 
arrange his working programme accordingly.  No claim whatsoever, for not giving entire site 
on award of work and for giving site gradually, will be tenable. 
 
36.  
SPECIAL CONDITION FOR  R EIMBURSEMENT/REFUND ON VARIATION IN “TAXES 
DIRECTLY RELATED TO CO N TRACT VALUE” 
 
36.1 
 The rates quoted by the Contractor shall be deemed to be inclusive of all taxes (including 
GST on materials, GST on Works Contracts, turnover tax, labour welfare cess/tax etc. which 
are applicable as per GST), duties, royalties, Octroi & other levies payable under the 
respective statutes. No reimbursement/refund for variation in rates of taxes, duties, 
royalties, Octroi & other levies, and/or imposition/abolition of any new/existing taxes, 
duties, royalties, Octroi & other levies shall be made except as provided in sub para (36.2) 
here in below. 
 
36.2 
(i)  
The taxes which are levied by Government at certain percentage rates of Contract 
Sum/amount shall be termed as “taxes directly related to Contract value” such as 
GST on Works Contract, turnover tax, labour welfare cess/tax and like but excluding 
Income tax.  The tendered rates shall be deemed to be inclusive of all “taxes directly 
related to Contract value” with existing percentage rates as prevailing on last due 
date for bid submission.  Any increase in percentage rate of “taxes directly related to 
Contract value” with reference to prevailing rates on last due date for bid submission 
shall be, reimbursed to the Contractor and any decrease in percentage rates of 
“taxes directly related to Contract value” with reference to prevailing rates on bid 
submission end date shall be refunded by the Contractor to the Govt. /deducted by 
the Government from any payments due to the Contractor. Similarly, imposition of 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 208  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

any new “taxes directly related to Contract value” after bid submission end date shall 
be reimbursed to the Contractor and abolition of any “taxes directly related to 
Contract value” prevailing on the bid submission end date shall be refunded by the 
Contractor to the Govt. /deducted by the Government from the payments due to the 
Contractor. 
 

(ii)  
The contractors shall within a reasonable time of his becoming aware of variation in 
percentage rates and/or imposition of any further “taxes directly related to Contract 
value” give written notice thereof to the GE stating that the same is given pursuant 
to this Special Condition, together with all information relating thereto which he may 
be in a position to supply.  The contractors shall also submit the other documentary 
proof/information as the GE may require. 
 
(iii)  
The Contractor shall, for the purpose of this condition keep such books of account 
and other documents as are necessary and shall allow inspection of the same by a 
duly authorized representative of Government and shall further, at the request of the 
GE furnish, verified in such a manner as the GE may require, any documents so kept 
and such other information as the GE may require. 
 
(iv)  
Reimbursement for increase in percentage rates/imposition of “taxes directly related 
to Contract value” shall be made only if Contractor necessarily and properly pays 
additional “taxes directly related to Contract value” to the Government, without 
getting the same adjusted against any other tax liability or without getting the same 
refunded from the concerned Government Authority and submits documentary proof 
for the same as the GE may require. 

 
37.  
PAYMENT TERMS & CONDITIONS:  P ayments terms shall be all as per Condition 64 of 
IAFW-2249 General Conditions of Contracts subject to the following:-  
 
37.1 
The contractor may at intervals of not less than 15 days may submit claims on IAFW-2263 
for payment of advances on account of work done and of materials delivered in connection 
with this contract. 
 
37.2  
In the case of this lump sum contract, the contractor shall also be entitled to be paid during 
the progress of work 85%(eighty five percent) on production of paid vouchers for the value 
of any materials which are in opinion of the Engineer-in-Charge in accordance with the 
contract and which have reasonably been brought on the site and proof of purchase in 
connection therewith and or adequately stored and protected against damage by weather 
or other cause, but which have not, at the time of the advance been incorporated in the 
works, provided always that payment shall not be made under these periodical certificate in 
respect of perishable materials(the discretion of  the GE as to what is perishable,  being 
final and binding). 
 
37.3  The GE shall from time to time certify the sum to which the contractor is entitled after 

retaining the reserve. 
 
37.4 
Provided further, the contractor may be paid advance on account to the full value of the 
materials like fittings and fixtures and other manufactured items which do not lose their 
identity as decided by GE only, brought on the site, on his furnishing guarantee Bond[s] 
from a scheduled bank for the amount of retention money which should otherwise be 
recoverable from contract. 
 
37.5 
 Items like bricks, pre-cast concrete articles etc though might come under the category of 
manufactured items shall not be included in the list, since they lose their identity after 
incorporation in the work. 
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 209  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

37.6 
The bank Guarantee Bond (s) shall be executed for a period and on a form as directed by 
the Accepting officer. The contractor shall further arrange to extend the period of 
Guarantee Bond[s] if and when necessary, as directed by the Accepting Officer or shall 
furnish fresh Guarantee Bond [s] similar value in lieu. 
 
37.7 
Any certificate relating to work done or materials delivered may be modified or corrected by 
any subsequent interim certificate or by the final certificate and no certificate of GE 
supporting an advance payment shall of itself be conclusive evidence that any work or 
materials to which it relates are in accordance with the contract.  Contractor’s special 
attention is drawn to condition 2A and 3 of IAFW-2249 (General Conditions of Contracts). 
The contractor shall not communicate any classified information regarding the work to any 
one unconnected with this contract. The contractor shall also not make copies of the 
design/drawings and other documents furnished to him in respect of the work and shall 
return all documents on completion of the works or earlier on termination of the contract.   
The contractor shall along with the final bill attach a receipt of his having returned the 
classified documents as per condition 3 of IAFW-2249 (General Conditions of Contracts). 
 
37.8 
All payments due under this contract shall be made by means of ELECTRONIC FUNDS 
TRANSFER. The amount will be credit to their existing account with any bank, participating 
ECS, located at ECS enable centre. The condition 66 of IAFW 2249 stands amended to this 
extent. The tenderers shall furnish the following details within 30 days from the acceptance 
of the contract.   INFORMATION REQUIRED [MANDATORY DETAILS] 
1.  
Name of the suppliers, Bank & Branch ( As per Account) 
2.  
Suppliers Name ( As per Account) & GST No. 
3.  
Suppliers Bank Account No. 
4.  
NEFT IFSC Code of suppliers 
5.  
MICR Code 
6.  
Account type (Ex Savings / Current ) 
7.  
Contact Number 
8.  
E-Mail ID 
 
 
 
 
Director / Authorised signature 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Signature of the Vendor / Contractor) 
38   
MS PROJECT [Monitoring Software]:     
 
38.1 
The time and progress chart to be prepared using MS Project software as per Condition 11 
of General Conditions of Contracts (IAFW-2249) shall consist of detailed network analysis 
and a time schedule.  The critical path network will be drawn jointly by GE and contractor 
soon after acceptance of tender.  The time scheduling of the activities will be done by the 
contractor so as to finish the work within the stipulated time.  On completion of the time 
schedule a firm calendar date schedule, will be prepared and submitted by the contractor to 
the GE, who will approve it after due scrutiny.  The schedule shall be submitted in four 
copies within two weeks from the date of handing over the site. 
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 210  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

39. 
ADVANCE ON ACCOUNT OF MATERIAL WHICH DOES NOT LOOSE IDENTITY          
(Condition 64 of IAFW-2249 – Advance on account) 
 
39.1 
Add the following in continuation of Para 8 of condition 64 of IAFW-2249 “provided further 
the contractor may be paid advance on account of the full value of the under mentioned 
materials brought on the site, on his furnishing guarantee bonds from a schedule bank for 
the amount of Retention Money which should otherwise be recoverable from him under the 
contract”:- 

 

(a)   Factory made door, window, ventilator, chowkats and shutters 

(b)   Builders Hardware & Sanitary fittings 

(c)   Electrical fittings & fixtures, LT Cables 

(d)   Water supply pipes, fittings & fixtures 

(e)   Any non-perishable materials which do not lose its identity, at the discretion of GE. 
 
39.2 
The Bank Guarantee Bonds shall be executed for a period and on a form as directed by the 
Accepting Officer. The contractor shall further arrange to extend the period of guarantee 
bond if and when necessary, as directed by the Accepting Officer or shall furnish fresh 
guarantee bond of similar value. 
 
39.3    It may be noted that the advance on account to the full value of materials brought on the 

site is permissible only in respect of fittings and fixtures and other manufactured items 
which do not loose their identity.  Materials like bricks, aggregate, cement, paints, pre cast-
concrete and similar items shall not be taken in the list. 

 

40. 
LABOUR (REGULATION & ABOLITION) ACT 
 
40.1 
Contract labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act 1970 is applicable to MES Contractors. Rates 
quoted by the tenderer shall be deemed to take into account the cost, etc., required to 
comply with the provisions contained in the said act and the rules framed under the said 
act. 
 
40.2 
Refer Condition 58 of IAFW-2249. The ‘Schedule of Minimum Wages’ as published vide 
Govt. of India Notification as applicable on date of receipt of tender forms part of these 
tender documents. However, the  c ontractor shall not pay wages lower than minimum wages 
for labour as fixed by the Govt. of India/ Union territory under Minimum Wages Act or 
Contract Labour (Abolition and Regulation Act), whichever is higher. 
 
40.3 
The fair wages referred to in condition 58 of IAFW-2249 will be deemed to be the same as 
the minimum wages referred to above as upto date from time to time. 
 
40.4 
Schedule of Minimum Wages is not enclosed along with the tender documents. However 
Contractor shall be deemed to have verified the minimum fair wages payable as on the last 
due date of the receipt of the tender. 
 
40.5 
The Contractor shall have no claim whatsoever, if on account of local factors and/or 
regulations, he is required to pay the wages in excess of minimum wages as described 
above during the execution of work. 
 
41.      LABOUR WELFARE TAX / CESS :  The rate quoted by the tenderer shall be deemed to 

include labour welfare tax as fixed by the Government.   
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 211  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

42. 
DIGITAL RECORD OF EXECUTED WORKS :   
 
42.1 
During execution of works, records of all hidden works, deviation and important stages of 
work shall be maintained using digital photography duly signed by AGE, GE and Contractor. 
All such records shall be submitted to higher authorities when called for and/or for 
verification during finalisation of DOs. These records need to be produced as proof by the 
GE/AGE in case of disputes. The decision of the GE with regard to recording of part/portion 
or full details of hidden works, deviation and important stages of works shall be final and 
binding. In case of dispute between the GE and Contractor with regard to measurements/ 
finalisation of DOs [in respect of recorded works] the decision of Accepting Officer shall be 
final and binding.  
 
42.2 
Contractor shall not proceed with the next stage unless photographs are taken for the 
previous stage. These photographs shall be preserved on CDs for future reference. GE shall 
arrange for digital camera and CDs required for the same.  
 
42.3 
Contractors shall consider all such provisions in their quotation before quoting the tender 
and their quoted rates shall have deemed to include all the incidental expenses [direct or 
indirect] required for such provisions and nothing extra will be entertained on this account. 
 
42.4 
Photographs of all stages shall be submitted along with every RAR by the contractor 
otherwise a sum of Rs. 50,000/- shall be restricted for each stage of work. 
 
43.  
REIMBURSEMENT/REFUND ON VARIATION IN PRIC E S :   ( Refer co n dition 63 of 
the General Conditions of Contracts IAFW-2249) 
 
43.1 
Increase or decrease in prices of Cement, Steel and other materials shall be adjusted on 
the basis stipulated hereinafter irrespective of the actual variation in prices (to the 
contractor). 
 
43.2  
GENERAL NOTES:  
 
43.2.1 
The periodicity for working out the variations will be three months. The first variation 
would be for the period of three months reckoned from the last due date for bid 
submission end date of tenders. 
 
43.2.2 
Wholesale price index for Cement/ Mild steel (Long Products)/ all commodities are 
published every month. Thus the index applicable for any day shall be the one applicable 
for the preceding month. 
 
43.2.3 
As the adjustments are to be made on a quarterly basis, commencing from the last due 
date for submission of tender. RARs should be timed in such a manner that the gross 
value of work done up to the corresponding date is readily available. 
 
43.2.4 
The monthly index numbers of wholesale prices for Cement/ Mild steel (Long Products)/ 
all commodities published by the Economic Advisor to Govt. of India, in the first instance, 
are generally termed 'Provisional’. Final Index Numbers for the corresponding month 
published subsequently is to be ensured and that the variation are worked out based on 
the ‘Final Index numbers’. These are available on website  http://eaindustry.nic.in .      
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 212  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

43.3  
CEMENT:  
 
43.3.1 
The cement cost component for the contract as a whole shall be taken as Kc% of value 
of works executed under the contract, Value of Kc given herein below:     
 

Accordingly, value/cost of cement consumed in the work as well as that lying at site 
for which reimbursement/refund is applicable shall be:  
 
 
 
VMc =  (Kc X Vg)  + Vc 
 
 
       100 

 

Variation in prices of cement shall be worked out by applying the following formula:- 
 
 
EMc = 
(VMc2–VMc1)  X    (C1-C0) 
 
 
 
 
 
          C0 
 
Where          
 
 
 
EMc = Variation in prices of cement to be adjusted. 
 
 
Kc = Constant representing the percentage cost of Cement as compared to  the total 
value of work under the contract as a whole. The value of  Kc  shall be  12  
( Twelve ) only . 
Vg =  Amount of work done priced at contract rates up to for the last date of the 
period of reckoning excluding amount payable to the contractor towards items on 
star rate and PC sum.  
 

Vc = Cost of all cement lying at site for incorporation in the work excluding cement 
issued under Schedule 'B' and excluding cement brought and paid or payable to 
contractor under Prime Cost Sum and/or Star Rate (s). 
 

C1  = Wholesale Price Index for Cement ( Base Year 2011-12=100 ) published by 
Economic Adviser to the Government of India as on the date of commencement of 
the period of reckoning. In case the original contract period is extended under 
condition 11 of General Conditions of Contracts (IAFVV-2249), the Price Index as 
applicable on the date of commencement of the last period of reckoning before the 
original completion date (s) (phase wise except where phasing has been done only 
for sample quarter/block) shall only be applicable during the extended period. If 
phasing has been done for only sample quarter/sample block, the price index as 
applicable on the date of commencement of the last reckoning period before the 
original completion date of the project as a whole shall  only be applicable during the 
extended period. 
   
C0  = As per  C1  but the index as on the last due date of Bid Submission.  
 
 
Note:   Irrespective of type of cement incorporated by the contractor, the wholesale 
price index considered for C0 and C1 shall be for  Portland Slag Cement  for which 
Wholesale Price Index is published by Economic Adviser to the Government of India.   
 
 
VMc2 =  Amount of cement up to the last date of the period of reckoning for which 
variation is adjustable as worked out as per formula for  VMc .  
 
 
VMc1 =  As per  VMc2  but as on date of  immediate preceding period of reckoning. 
 

Note:   No adjustment in prices shall be made for any work done with cement brought at 
site after the stipulated date of completion of the work under the contract except as 
contemplated under definition of  C1 . 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 213  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

43.4 
STEEL:  
 
43.4.1 
The steel cost component for the contract as a whole shall be taken as  Ks%  of value of 
works executed under the contract, Value of  Ks  given herein below:     
 

Accordingly, value/cost of steel consumed in the work as well as that lying at site for 
which reimbursement/refund is applicable shall be:  
 
 
 
VMs =  (Ks X Vg)  + Vs 
 
 
       100 

 

Variation in prices of steel shall be worked out by applying the following formula:- 
 
 
EMs = 
(VMs2–VMs1)  X    (S1-S0) 
 
 
 
 
 
         S0 
 
Where          
 
 
 
EMs = Variation in prices of steel to be adjusted. 
 
 
Ks = Constant representing the percentage cost of Steel as compared to  the total value 
of work under the contract as a whole. The value of  Ks  shall be  20  ( Twenty ) 
only . 
 

Vg =  Amount of work done priced at contract rates up to for the last date of the 
period of reckoning excluding amount payable to the contractor towards items on 
star rate and PC sum.  
 
Vs = Cost of all steel lying at site for incorporation in the work excluding steel issued 
under Schedule 'B' and excluding steel brought and paid or payable to contractor 
under Prime Cost Sum and/or Star Rate (s). 
 

S1  = Wholesale Price Index for Mild Steel (Long products) ( Base Year 2011-
12=100 ) published by Economic Adviser to the Government of India as on the date 
of commencement of the period of reckoning. In case the original contract period is 
extended under condition 11 of General Conditions of Contracts (IAFVV-2249), the 
Price Index as applicable on the date of commencement of the last period of 
reckoning before the original completion date (s) (phase wise except where phasing 
has been done only for sample quarter/block) shall only be applicable during the 
extended period. If phasing has been done for only sample quarter/sample block, the 
price index as applicable on the date of commencement of the last reckoning period 
before the original completion date of the project as a whole shall  only be applicable 
during the extended period. 
   
S0  = As per  S1  but the index as on the last due date of Bid Submission.  
 
 
VMs2 =  Amount of steel up to the last date of the period of reckoning for which 
variation is adjustable as worked out as per formula for  VMs .  
 
 
VMs1 =  As per  VMs2  but as on date of  immediate preceding period of reckoning. 
 

Note:   No adjustment in prices shall be made for any work done with cement brought at 
site after the stipulated date of completion of the work under the contract except as 
contemplated under definition of  S1 . 
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 214  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

43.5 
OTHER MATERIALS (EXCEPT CEMENT & STEEL):  
 
43.5.1 
The material cost component except cement & steel for the contract as a whole shall be 
taken as  KoM%  of value of works executed under the contract, Value of  KoM  given 
herein below:     

 

Accordingly value/cost of other materials consumed in the work as well as that lying 
at site for which reimbursement/refund is applicable shall be:  
 
 
 
VM =  (KoM X Vg)  + (VoM-VB) 
 
 
       100 

 

Variation in prices of  materials (except cement & steel)  shall be worked out by 
applying the following formula:- 
 
 
EM = 
(VM2–VM1)  X    (W1-W0) 
 
 
 
 
 
       W0 
 
Where          
 
 
 
EM  = Variation in prices of material to be adjusted except cement & steel. 

 
 
KoM = Constant representing the percentage cost of other material except cement & 
steel as compared to  the total value of work under the contract as a whole. The 
value of  KoM  shall be  29.50  ( Twenty nine point five zero ) only . 

 

Vg =  Gross value of work done priced at contract rates up to for the last date of the 
period of reckoning excluding amount payable to the contractor towards items on 
star rate and PC sum. 
VoM = Value of all materials (except cement & steel) lying at site for incorporation in 
the work including materials (except cement & steel) issued under Schedule 'B' and 
including materials (except cement & steel) brought and paid or payable to 
contractor under Prime Cost Sum and/or Star Rate (s). 
 

VB  = Value of all materials (out of  Vg  and  VoM ) (except cement & steel) issued under 
schedule 'B' plus value of all materials (except cement & steel) brought and paid or 
payable to contractor under Prime Cost Sum and/or Star Rate (s). 
 
W1  = Wholesale Price Index for all commodities ( Base Year 2011-12=100 ) 
published by Economic Adviser to the Government of India as on the date of 
commencement of the period of reckoning. In case the original contract period is 
extended under condition 11 of General Conditions of Contracts (IAFVV-2249), the 
Price Index as applicable on the date of commencement of the last period of 
reckoning before the original completion date (s) (phase wise except where phasing 
has been done only for sample quarter/block) shall only be applicable during the 
extended period. If phasing has been done for only sample quarter/sample block, the 
price index as applicable on the date of commencement of the last reckoning period 
before the original completion date of the project as a whole shall  only be applicable 
during the extended period. 
   
W0  = As per  W1  but the index as on the last due date of Bid Submission.  

 
 
VM2 =  =  Value of material (except cement & steel) up to the last date of the period of 
reckoning for which variation is adjustable as worked out as per formula for  VM .  

 
 
VM1 =  As per  VM2  but as on date of  immediate preceding period of reckoning. 

 

Note:   No adjustment in prices shall be made for any work done with cement brought at 
site after the stipulated date of completion of the work under the contract except as 
contemplated under definition of  W1 . 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 215  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

43.6  
REMBURSEMENT/REFUND ON VARIATION IN P RIC ES :  WAGES   O F  LA B OUR 
(Refer Condition 63 of IAFW-2249) 

 
43.6.1 
Increase or decrease in price consequent on variation in wages of labour shall be 
adjusted on the basis stipulated here-in-after irrespective of the actual variation in price-
wages of labour to the contractor. 

 
43.6.2 
LABOUR:   The labour component for the work under the contract as a whole shall be 
taken as Kl% of the value of the work executed under the contract. Variation in the 
labour wages shall be worked out by applying the following formula: 
 
 
El   =   Kl   X Vg1 X (L1-L0) 
 
 
   100                 L0 
 
Where 

 
 
El  = Variation in wages of labour reimbursement to be made to the contractor or refund 
to be made by the contractor. 

 
 
Kl  = Constant representing the percentage of cost of Labour element as compared to 
the total value of work under the contract as a whole. The value of Kl shall be 
20 (TWENTY) only . 

 
 
Vg1  = Grass value of work done at contract rates during the period of reckoning less 
value of work paid or payable to the contractor based on actual cost (eg.  Star Rate (s), 
work executed under prime cost sum etc,) during the period of reckoning.   

 
 
L1  = Minimum wage in rupees of an unskilled adult male mazdoor as fixed under any 
law, statutory rule or order as on the date of commencement of the period of reckoning. 

 
 
L0  = As for  L1 , but the minimum wage in rupees of an unskilled adult male mazdoor as 
on the bid submission end date. If labour wages on the bid submission end date are 
increased afterward with retrospective effect the value of  L0  shall be fixed keeping in 
view the following aspects: 

 

(a) 
If the increase/decrease in wages of labour are made known to the public by any 
media before receipt date of tender but the same is officially notified thereafter 
giving retrospective effect, the value of  L0  shall be as per notification though 
made subsequently. 
 
(b) 
If a net – wage comprises a fixed basic wage and living allowance revised from 
time to time based on consumer priced index (CPI) and increase in CPI is made 
known to the public by any means before the date of receipt of tender, the  L0  will 
be revised wages corresponding to revised CPI, though the formal notification for 
the net wage (considering the revised living allowance corresponding to revised 
CPI) is made subsequent to date of receipt of tender. 
 
(c) 
In case the Labour Enforcement Officer makes the announcement before the date 
of receipt of tender but gazette notification is made subsequently making wages 
applicable with retrospective effect, the value of  L0  shall be as per gazette 
notification subsequently made. 
 
(d) 
If the increase/decrease in wages of labours is notified/announced subsequent to 
receipt of tender with retrospective effect without making the same publicly 
known by means of publicity/media prior to the date of receipt of tender, then, 
the value of  L0  shall be as per wage known at the time of receipt of tender. 
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 216  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

NOTES: 

 
i.  
No adjustment, whatsoever, due to variation in prices of materials on account 
of coming into force of any fresh law or statutory rule or order as provided in 
Condition 63 of IAFW-2249 or otherwise than provided in this condition shall 
be made. 

 
ii.  
No adjustment in prices shall be made for any work done with materials 
brought at site after the original date of completion of the work as mentioned 
in work order No 01 under contract except as contemplated under definition 
of  C1, S1 and W1  hereinbefore. 

 
iii.  
Periodicity of working out the escalation on account of variation in prices will 
be three months. The last calculation shall however be done for the value of 
work at contract rates and materials lying at site for incorporation in the work 
as on date of completion or extension thereof as mentioned in Note ii above. 
Valuation of RARs is to be timed in such a manner that relevant date   required 
for quarterly calculation under this condition is available from RARs. In case 
on these dates no RAR is preferred by the contractor, dummy RAR would be 
prepared & shall be kept on record duly technically checked and audited. 
Amount payable relevant to work done and materials collected in quarter will 
be worked out after firm whole sale price indices for the relevant quarter are 
available. Once the amount adjustable for any quarter is worked out, the 
same shall be adjusted as and along with advance on account payment in the 
subsequent RAR (s). 

 
iv.  
Any dispute arising out of interpretation or application of this Special Condition 
shall be referred to the Accepting Officer whose decision shall be final and 
binding. 

 
v.  
For the purpose of calculation of retention money, liquidated damages, GST 
on works contracts, deduction of income tax at source and recovery of water 
charges (in case of un metered supply) the value of contracts as revised by 
the above price variation will be taken into account. 

 
vi.  
In cases, where value of  VM2 - VM1  works out to minus on account of higher 
utilisation of schedule B' stores (i.e value of Schedule B stores under contract 
as a whole is higher than  KoM  value) and the reimbursement on account of 
variation in prices of materials (except Cement & Steel) works out to be 
negative in spite of the Wholesale Price Index for All Commodities published 
by Economic Adviser to Government of India going up from  W0 , 
reimbursement on account of variation in prices of materials shall be treated 
as "Nil". 
 

 

 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 217  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

43.7 
REIMBURSEMENT/REFUND ON VARIATION IN PRICES FOR LIFTS:    The price 
quoted shall be deemed on the cost of raw materials, components and labour as on the 
date of submission of the tender and the same shall be deemed to be related to the 
Wholesale Price Index Number for the metal products and the All India Average Price Index 
Number for Industrial Workers (General Index) as specified below. In case of any variation 
on these Index numbers, the price shall be subject to the adjustment up or down in 
accordance with the following formula:   
  

P =  
  P 0         15 + 55MP + 15W 0   (D) + 15W 0  (I)   
100              MP 0           W 0               W 0   
 Where:  
 P = Total amount payable i.e. amount of contract as accepted for lifts including variation in price 

in accordance with the above price variation formulae. 
 
 P 0  =  Amount of Schedule “A‟ for Lifts‟ as accepted.   
   
 MP 0  = Wholesale Price Index Number for metal Products as published by the office of the 

Economic Advisor, Ministry of Industries, Government of India (base year 2011-12=100) as 
on Bid submission end date. 
 W0 = All India Average Consumer Price Index Number for industrial Workers (Base Year 

2001=100) (General Index), as published by the Labour Bureau, Ministry of Labour, Govt. 
of India. The above index numbers ie MP0 and W0 are those published by Government as 
prevailing on the first working day of the calendar month three months prior to the bid 
submission end date. 
 
MP = Whole Sale Price Index Number for metal products as published by the office of the 

Economic Advisor, Ministry of Industry, Government of India in their weekly bulletin Revised 
Index Number of Wholesale Price (base 2011-12 = 100)  
 

The applicable Wholesale Price Index Number for metal products would be that prevailing 
on the 1st Saturday of the month covering the date three months prior to the date of 
delivery of the first lot of manufactured materials for each elevator separately.  
 
W0(D) = All India Average Consumer Price Index Number for industrial workers (base 2001 = 100) 

(General Index) as published by the Labour Bureau, Ministry of Labour, Government of 
India. Applicable All India Average Consumer Price Index Number for industrial workers as 
published by the Labour Bureau, Ministry of Labour, Government of India, would be for the 
month, three months prior to the date of delivery of first lot of manufactured materials. 
 
W0(I) = All India Average Consumer Price Index Number for industrial workers (base 2001 = 100) 

(General Index) as published by the Labour Bureau, Ministry of Labour, Government of 
India. The Applicable All India Average Consumer Price Index Number for industrial workers 
as published by the Labour Bureau, Ministry of Labour, Government of India, would be for 
the month, three months prior to the date of completion of the installation.  
  
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 218  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

Notes:  - 
 

(a)   The date of delivery shall be the date of which the first lot of manufactured materials for 

each elevator is notified as being ready for inspection and despatch (in the absence of such 
notification the date of manufacturer‟s despatch note shall be considered as the date of 
delivery)  
 
(b)   The date of completion of each elevator shall be the date on which the work is certified as 

completed and is available for inspection (in the absence of such notification the date of the 
manufacturer‟s note intimating such completion shall be considered as the crucial date) or 
the contracted completion date for such installation or part of installation (including any 
agreed extension thereto) whichever shall be earlier. 
 
(c)   The Index Number for metal products is published weekly, but if there are any changes, the 

same are incorporated in the issue appearing in the following week. For the purpose of this 
price variation clause, the final index figures shall apply 
  
(d)   No adjustment, whatsoever, due to variation in prices on account of coming into force of 

any fresh law or statutory rule or order as provided in Condition 63 of IAFW-2249 or 
otherwise than provided in this condition shall be made.  
 
44. 
DISPUTE RESOLUTION BOARD [DRB] [CONDITION – 71 OF IAFW – 2249 
GENERAL CONDITIONS O F  CONTRACTS REFERS]   
 
44.1  During execution of the works or after completion or after determination / cancellation / 

termination of the contract all disputes between the parties to contract arising out of the 
contract [except those for which decision of Accepting Officer or any other officer [CWE 
and/or GE] is expressed to be final and binding], including any disagreement by either party 
with any action, inaction, opinion, instruction, certificate or valuation by the Accepting 
Officer or his nominee, the matter in dispute shall, in the first place be referred to the 
Dispute Resolution Board [DRB]. In case of disagreement with the decision of such DRB, 
any party may invoke arbitration clause. 
 
44.2  The Constitution of the DRB shall be a three-member body as under: 

 
[a]  
Chairman 
:   
Joint DG [Contracts] of the concerned Command Chief 
Engineer, Where Joint DG [Contracts] is not posted in 
the Command, any other Chief Engineer / Brigadier 
level Officer posted in CE Command shall be nominated 
by Command CE at his sole discretion. 
 
[b]  
Member 1 
 
: 
Colonel / Director rank officers of Command CE or any 
other Zonal CE be nominated by Command CE 
[c]  
Member 2 
 
44.3  The name of chairman and members shall be notified by the Accepting Officer within one 

month of the date of acceptance of contract. 
 
44.4 
Once the DRB is constituted the members and Chairman shall disclose in writing their 
neutrality and impartiality about any personal interest in the work. 
 
44.5 
The dispute shall be referred to the chairman of the DRB by the concerned party after 
giving notice to the other party for invoking of this clause. 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 219  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

44.6.  The DRB shall decide the dispute in accordance with the terms of the contract, principle of 

natural justice, equity and fair play. 
 
44.7 
The DRB may fix oral hearing at a place, date and time as decided by the Chairman. 
 
44.8 
The requisite administrative support to the DRB shall be provided by the Accepting Officer. 
 
44.9 
All the contract documents pertaining to the case shall be provided by the Accepting Officer 
for reference by the DRB. 
 
44.10  DRB shall give its decision on the disputes within three months of notice from any part 

invoking the DRB clause. This period can be extended by one month with the consent of the 
parties. 
 
44.11 All the decisions given by the DRB shall be by majority and such decision shall be 

communicated in writing by Chairman to the parties. 
 
44.12  If the decision of the DRB is not to the satisfaction of either party or if the DRB fails to give 

decision within the laid down time either party shall indicate his reservations on the decision 
to Accepting Officer within 30 days of such decision and to refer that dispute for arbitration 
within the provisions of Condition – 70 of IAFW – 2249 General Conditions of Contract. 
 
44.13 It shall be mandatory for the party invoking arbitration on any particular dispute to have 

first exhausted the remedy provided under the DRB clause for that particular dispute. 
 
44.14  The mandate of the DRB shall terminate on completion of one year from the date of 

completion/ determination / cancellation / termination of the contract. 
 
44.15  If any member or Chairman of the DRB is unable to function due to any reason whatsoever, 

or the resigns his appointment, Chief Engineer Command as the case may be, shall fill the 
vacancy so cause within 15 days of happening of such vacancy. 
 
44.16  Any dispute referred to the DRB and having been decided by the DRB and not objected to 

by either party within 30 days shall attain finality and shall not be preferable to arbitration. 
 
44.17  Accepting Officer shall ensure implementation of the decisions of the DRB which attain 

finality, i.e. except those which are objected by him or by contractor within 30 days as per 
para 46.12 above. 
 
44.18  Findings and decision of DRB shall be admissible as evidence, to the extent permissible as 

per law, in the subsequent Arbitration and/or litigation. 
 
44.19  DRB Chairman / Members shall not, in any case, be liable to be called as witness or to 

produce any evidence in any Arbitration or departmental proceedings of any kind. 
 
44.20 During execution of work the disputes may be referred to the DRB as per the requirement 

of each party after having exhausted the decision making process provided in the contracts. 
In case of completion of work or after determination / cancellation / termination of the 
contract all the disputes including payment / non-payment / delay in final bill shall e 
simultaneously referred to the DRB within six months of completion / determination / 
cancellation / termination of the contract. 
 
44.21 The department case before the DRB shall be presented by Accepting Officer himself and/or 

Dir [Contracts] of CE zone assisted by CWE and his DCWE [Contract], GE and his AGE 
[Contracts] and any other officer and legal counsel nominated by Accepting Officer. The 
contractor may present his case by himself and/or by his nominated representatives & 
authorised legal / technical counsel. 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 220  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

45 
REFERENCE CONDITION No. 25 OF IAFW – 2249:  
 
45.1 
The requirement of Engineering Staff for this tender shall be as under: 
 
[i]  
Three Degree holder in Civil Engineering, Two Degree holder in Electrical 
Engineering and One Degree holder in Mechanical Engineering from Government 
recognised Institution or equivalent with at least  5  years’ practicable experience 
of works. 
 

AND 

 

[ii]  
Five Diploma holder in Civil Engineering, Three Diploma holder in Electrical 
Engineering and Two Diploma holder in Mechanical Engineering from Government 
recognised Institution or equivalent with at least  5  years’ practicable experience 
of works. 

AND 
[iii]  
One of the Engineers should have the capability to use Project Management 
software such as MS Project / Primavera in all projects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      AND 
 
 
[iv] 
The firm should employee one Safety Engineer with minimum experience of 5 
years. 
 
46.  
SPECIAL T&P/MACHINERY/TRANSPORT :   
 
46.1 
The requirement of T&P for this tender shall be as under: 
 

Sl.No.
SPECIAL T&P/MACHINERY/TRANSPORT
Mi n imum  N os required
 
1.
Vibrators (Needle and Plate type) 
04

2.
Tower/Builder’s hoist
04

3.
Steel shuttering with spans, props etc (Sqm)
15000 Sqm

4.
Trucks/Tippers
06

5.
DG Sets 5KVA/10KVA
04

6.
Total stations
04

7.
Concrete 
cube 
testing 
machine 
(Hydr a uli c all y  
operated) 

01

8.
Fully automatic concrete batching plant
01

9.
Transit Mixers
05

10.
Concrete pumps
03

11.
Concrete mobile weigh batchers
02

12.
Cranes
02

13.
Excavators (Power shovels/draglines)
02

14.
Bull dozers
01

15.
Road Rollers
02

16.
Drilling Machines
04

17.
Water Browser
05

 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 221  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

46.2 
The T&P employed by the contractor shall be as per panning in MS Project. The list of 
T&P shown is tentative and is to be increased as per site requirement. No additional 
payment will be made if more T&P is required for execution of work and is brought by 
contractor to the site. 
 
47. 
OUTPUT OF ROAD ROLLER  

47.1 
Refer Condition 15 of IAFW-2249. 
 
47.2 
Where road rollers are hired by the Department to contractors, log book for each road 
roller shall be maintained by the Department for recording hours of working of the road 
roller.  In case, however, when the contractor procures road roller (s) from sources other 
than the Department, a log book for each road roller engaged by the contractor shall be 
maintained by him for recording hours of working of the road roller. Entries in the log 
book shall be signed by the contractor or his authorized representative and by the 
Engineer-in-Charge. 
 
47.3 
To ensure proper consolidation, roller must work for at-least the number of days 
assessed on the basis of output given herein-under.  If the road roller has not worked for 
the number of days so assessed, recovery shall be affected from the contractor for the 
number of days falling short of the days assessed on the basis of output stipulated.  The 
recovery shall be effected as under: 
 

[a]  
Where road roller is hired out only by the Department to the contractor at rates 
given in Schedule "C".  
 
[b]  
Where road roller is hired by the contractor only from sources other than the 
Department at the rate of Rs. 2,500.00 per working day of 8 hours for static 
power roller and at the rate of Rs. 4,000.00 per working day for tandem vibratory 
roller. 
 
[c]  
Where road roller is hired by the contractor from the Department and also from 
sources other than the Department, at higher of the two rates given in Schedule 
"C" of the contract and Para [b] above. 
 
[d] 
The above provision shall not, however absolve the contractor of his responsibility 
of properly consolidating surfaces as required under the provisions of the 
contract.   

 
47.4 
Output of Road Roller per day of Eight hours: 

 

[a]  
Consolidation of formation Surface/Sub Grade  
:  
1850 Sq.m  

[b]  
Consolidation of Stone Soling/Hardcore:  

 
[i]  
10 cm thick [Spread Thickness]  
:  
1000 Sq.m  

 
[ii]  15 cm thick [Spread Thickness]  
:  
800 Sq.m  

 
[iii]  23/20 cm thick [Spread Thickness]  
:  
518 Sq.m  

[c]  
Consolidation of Water Bound Macadam [Stone Metal] including Spreading and 
Consolidation with Binding Material:  

 
[i]  
7.5 cm [Compacted Thickness]  
:  
372 Sq.m  

 
[ii]  10 cm [Compacted Thickness]  
:  
175 Sq.m  

 
[iii]  11.5 cm [Compacted Thickness]  
:  
248 Sq.m  


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 222  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

[d]  
Consolidation of Premixed Carpet Including Seal Coat:  

 
[i]  
20 mm thick [Compacted Thickness]  
:  
744 Sq.m  

 
[ii]  25 mm thick [Compacted Thickness]  
:  
600 Sq.m  

 
[iii]  40 mm thick [Compacted Thickness]  
:  
500 Sq.m  

[e]  
Consolidation of Single Coat Surface Dressing  
:  
774 Sq.m  

[f]  
Consolidation of Two Coats of Surface Dressing  
:  
558 Sq.m  

[g]  
Consolidation of bituminous mixture two parts broken stone metal and one part of 
sand and bitumen:  

[i]  
4.0 cm [Compacted Thickness]  
:  
372 Sq.m  

[e]  
Consolidation of 15 cm thick [Spread Thickness] 
:  
1800 Sq.m 
 
Earthen / Moorum Berms  

[f]  
Premixed Bituminous Macadam  
:  
15 Cu.m  

[g]  
Semi Dense Asphaltic Concrete  
:  
18.40 Cu.m  

Note :  Regarding output of road roller in respect of other items catered in the CA, GE 

shall order a board of officers and ascertain the required output of road roller to 
achieve the desired / specified compaction over a trail area which will be the basis 
for the corresponding works.      

47.5 
The number of hours / days assessed for proper consolidation and number of hours / 
days each surface of each stretch / piece of road consolidated, shall be submitted by the 
contractor to Engineer-in-Charge and GE for each stage and only after written approval 
of GE, contractor will proceed to next stage of work.  
 
48. 
Mobilisation Advance Non-Revocable Bank Guarantee :  Mobilisation Advance would 
be operated through as Escrow Account.  
 
48.1 
Mobilisation Advance: 
 
(a) 
Interest bearing mobilization advance for maximum 10% (Ten percent) of contract sum 
shall be given to the Contractor if he/they so desires and on in specific written request, in 
two instalments, on production of a non-revocable Bank Guarantee (s), for the amount at 
least 110% of the advance on an approved form from a Nationalised/ Scheduled Bank. The 
Bank Guarantee (s) shall indemnify the Government against non-refund of mobilization 
advance and also against default on Contractor’s part in performance of the Contract. The 
rate of interest shall be 10% per annum, simple interest. 

(b) 
The first installment of mobilization advance shall be 50% of advance and shall be paid to 
the Contractor within 30 days of acceptance of Bank Guarantee(s) of 110% of the same 
amount furnished by him, by the Accepting Officer. The second installment of the balance 
amount shall be paid to the Contractor after 6 months of payment of the first installment 
provided Bank Guarantee (s) for corresponding amount increased by 10% has/have been 
furnished by the Contractor, at least one month in advance and accepted by the Accepting 
Officer. 
   

 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 223  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

(c) 
The total amount of mobilization advance, together with interest shall be recovered from 
the payments made to the contractor against “Advance on Account”, under condition 64 of 
IAFW-2249, MES General Conditions of Contracts. 
 
(d) 
The amount of mobilization advance shall be recovered in monthly instalments as stipulated 
hereinafter. 
 

(i)  
Against the first instalment of mobilization advance, the first instalment of recovery 
shall be effected from the ‘Advance on Account’ payment made immediately 
following the payment of mobilization advance and the last instalment of recovery 
shall be effected during the third month preceding the month in which the due date 
of completion stipulated in first Work Order falls. The various instalments of recovery 
shall be of equal amounts. 
 
(ii)  
Against the second instalment of mobilization advance of contract sum the first 
instalment of recovery shall be effected from the ‘Advance on Account’ payment 
made immediately following the payment of mobilization advance of contract sum 
and the last instalment of recovery shall be effected during the third preceding the 
month in which the due date of completion stipulated in first Work Order falls. The 
various instalments of recovery shall be of equal amounts. The recovery in 
instalments of this mobilization advance of contract sum shall be in addition to the 
recovery in instalments of the mobilization advance (first instalment) vide sub Para d 
(i) above. 
 
(e) 
The Contractor may furnish one Bank Guarantee or a number of Bank Guarantees equal to 
number of installments for recovery, each to match the quantum of recovery to be effected 
from the ‘Advance on Account’.  In case recovery is not possible to be effected from any 
particular ‘Advance on Account’ for reasons on non submission of claim for payment of 
‘Advance on Account’ or for any other reasons whatsoever, the recovery due shall be made 
by encashing the Bank Guarantee. 
 
48.2 
ESCROW ACCOUNT:  Procedure for  operation of joint Escrow Account for Mobilisation 
Advance is as under: -   
 

(a)  The joint Escrow account for mobilization advance shall be opened in any 

Nationalised/Scheduled Bank and it shall be operated by the employer's representative 
ie Garrison Engineer (GE) and authorized representative of the contractor. The 
mobilization advance into the Escrow account shall be made against a non- revocable 
Bank Guarantee (s) for an amount at least 110% of the amount of the mobilization 
advance. The mobilization advance shall be made in two instalments as per the 
stipulated conditions of the contract agreement. 
 
(b)  The employer's representative ie GE shall be responsible to operate the account on 

behalf of Accepting Officer and the authorized representative of the contractor will be 
co- signatory to the account. 
 
(c)  Escrow account will be opened by the contractor with the Escrow Agent 

(Nationalised/Scheduled Bank) with the mobilization advance paid to the contractor 
after acceptance of the Bank Guarantee bond of requisite value. The amount of 
mobilization advance can be transferred by GE to the Escrow account through digital 
route. 
 
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 224  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

(d)  The payment from Escrow account shall be made to meet bonafide expenditure on the 

project including the following:- 
 
(i)  
Procurement of construction material, stores, equipment and machineries required for 
the project. 
 
(ii)  Hiring of service of any nature including skilled/ unskilled labour to be employed on 

the project/muster rolls for payment made on this account. 
 
(iii)  Repair and maintenance of machinery, tools, plant, vehicle etc used on the project. 
 
(iv)  Any other bonafide expenditure, unforeseen but related to the project and verified by 

the GE. 
 
(e)  The payment by the contractor from the Escrow account shall be released by the bank 

on receipt of written authorization from GE. 

 

(f) 
The cash book and e-summary of transaction shall be maintained by the GE office and 
it will be signed by both the GE and contractor's representative authorized to receive 
payment. 
 
(g)  The internal audit of the Escrow account shall be co-responsibility of GE and the 

contractor. 
 
(h)  The bank charges for opening and operation of Escrow account shall be borne by the 

contractor.. 
 
(j) 
The cheque shall be issued in the form of crossed cheque to payee's accounts only. In 
case of digital transfer of amount of mobilization advance, an authority letter will be 
issued by GE to the Accounts Officer, 
 
(k)  The Escrow account shall be operated within the provision of terms and conditions of 

the Escrow agreement. In case of any conflict between the contractor and GE for 
Escrow account procedure, this agreement shall prevail and the decision of CWE of 
the area shall be final and binding. 

(l)  
The Escrow account shall be closed immediately on recovery of mobilization Advance 
through an agreed instrument of closure signed by both parties. Government will not 
bear any liability due to failure to close the account. 
 
(m)  By operation of the Escrow account, the contractor is not relieved of his obligations 

under the contract agreement with respect to completion of the project on time within 
the amount mentioned in the contract agreement. 
 
(n) 
The role of Escrow account is limited to ensure smooth flow of finance to the project 
in hand by channelling project payment for speedy execution of the project. Every 
Escrow account will be specific to a project and will in no case be used for any other 
project. 
 
(o)  Escrow agreement shall remain in full force and effect so long as amounts remain 

outstanding from the contractor in respect of the mobilization advance or its 
obligations to Government, unless terminated earlier by the mutual consent of both 
parties or otherwise in accordance with the provisions contained in this agreement. 
 
 
 
Signature of contractor 
 
 
 
 
 
[ T Venkata Ratnam ]   
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DD (Contracts) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For Accepting Officer  
 
 


CA NO. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023  
    
SERIAL PAGE NO. 225  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS (CONTD..,) 

Annexure  
to clause No. 33 (a) (ii) 
 
AGREEMENT 

 
FOR APPOINTMENT OF ARBITRATORS 
 
1.  
A contract was concluded between DDG&CE, DGNP, Naval base, Visakhapatnam – 

530014 and M/S__________________________________________________________________ 

on_________________________for___________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

_____________________bearing CA No_______________________________________________. 

 

2.  
WHEREAS certain disputes have arisen in the above contract and both the parties are 

desirous for appointment of arbitrator(s) to adjudicate upon the disputes. 

 

           
AND WHEREAS as per para 8 of the arbitration and conciliation (amendment) the 

applicability of the Sub Section 5 and Section 12 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 by  an 

express agreement in writing. 

 

3.  
We both parties to the agreement, hereby agree for appointment of arbitrators from 

panel of arbitrator published by Ministry of Defence by the Director General Naval Project 

(Visakhapatnam). 

 
 
 
Signature of contractor 
Signature of Accepting officer 
Designation: 
Designation:  
 
Name: 
Name: 
___________ 2022 
____________ 2022 
 
Signature of Witness 
1. 
______________________ 

______________________ 

______________________ 

2. 
______________________ 

______________________ 

______________________  

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 226 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

1 
WORK IN ACCORDANCE WITH DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS:  
 
1.1 
The work under this contract shall be carried out in accordance with Schedule "A", Special 
Conditions, Particular Specifications, Drawings, General Specifications, relevant Indian Standard and 
codes of practice and other provisions in MES Standard Schedule of Rates, Part – I [2009] 
[Specifications] and MES Standard Schedule of Rates, Part – II [2020] [Rates] [hereinafter called as 
MES Schedule Part – I & MES Schedule Part – II respectively] read in conjunction with each other 
including amendments and errata. 
 
1.2 
The term “General Specifications” referred to hereinbefore as well as referred to in IAFW – 2249 
[General Conditions of Contracts] shall mean the specifications contained in the MES Schedule Part 
– I including amendments and errata as applicable thereto. 
 
1.3 
General rules, specifications, special conditions and preambles/special conditions in the MES 
Schedule shall be deemed to be applicable to the works under this contract unless mentioned 
otherwise in these tender documents in which case the provisions in these tender documents shall 
take precedence over the above said provisions in the MES Schedule. 
 
1.4 
The Particular specifications shall be read in conjunction with special conditions and general 
conditions of contracts [IAFW-2249] and IAFW-2159 including errata and amendments thereof.  If 
any provision in these particular specifications is at variance with that of the aforesaid documents, 
the former shall be deemed to take precedence there over. 
 
1.5 
MAKING CHASES/ HOLES, ETC IN WALLS AND OTHER SITUATIONS: Chases/holes, etc, made in 
concrete, brick work, stone masonry, floors and in any other situations for carrying out the various 
items of work as required or as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge shall be made good in the same 
mortar/concrete as specified for that portion of the work. 
 
1.6 
SITE CLEARANCE: Refer Condition 49 of IAFW-2249, General Conditions of Contracts. The 
contractor shall remove from the site all unused stores and materials, tools and plants, equipment, 
scaffolding, temporary buildings, huts and like belonging to the contractor provided for the 
execution of the work under this contract and the site of work shall be cleared off rubbish and all 
waste materials by the contractor and deliver the site in neat, clean and tidy manner to the 
satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge on or before the date of completion. Nothing extra 
whatsoever shall be paid to the contractor for such clearance of site and the lump sum quoted shall 
deemed to include the same. 
 
1.7 
In the event of any discrepancy between various documents forming part of the tender, the 
following order of precedence shall be observed [Ref condition 6A of IAFW-2249] :- 
 

(a) 
Description of Schedule ‘A’ including notes therein.   
(b) 
Particular Specifications 
(c) 
Drawings including notes thereon.              
(d) 
MES Schedule (SSR). 
(e) 
Indian Standard specifications/Code of practice.  
 
 
NOTES: - In case no provision is made in (a) to (d) above, Indian Standard Specification/Code of 
Practice shall be followed. 
 
2 
EXCAVATION AND EARTH WORK [FOR SCHEDULE “A” PART – I] 
 
2.1 
PREPARATORY WORK: 

2.1.1 
The existing ground levels shall be recorded jointly at an interval not more than 3.0 metres grid on 
graph sheet. Level sheet shall be prepared clearly indicating proposed building work, external 
services such as roads, culverts, sewage disposal, area drainage and information such as proposed 
plinth level of building, invert level of man holes, drains, culverts etc required for proper execution 
of the work as per Engineering norms, within 15 days from the date of commencement of work 
[prior to execution of work] duly signed by GE and contractor. Level sheet shall be kept in record by 
GE in duplicate before execution of work. One copy of the level sheet approved by the GE shall be 
forwarded to the Accepting Officer, prior to execution of the work for record purpose.  
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 227 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

2.1.2 
SITE CLEARANCE AND SURFACE EXCAVATION:  Before setting out the building and commencing 
the construction, Preparatory work such as removal of grass, vegetation, jungle clearance etc, 
surface excavation to a depth not exceeding 30 cm and averaging 15 cm, in any type of soil for 
the entire area occupied by the building and structure including plinth protection ramps, steps etc. 
shall be carried out by the contractor. The depth of foundation shown in drawing shall be after 
surface excavation only. The lump sum quoted by the contractor for Schedule “A” Part-I shall 
include for this provision.  

 
2.1.3 
SURFACE DRESSING:  Surface dressing around the entire buildings and structure to a width of 3 
Metres beyond the external edge of plinth protection / steps / ramp or external wall as applicable 
shall be carried out by the contractor as per clause 3.6 and 3.10 of MES Schedule Part-I [2009]. 
Area around outer edge of building / structure shall be dressed to slope away from the buildings as 
directed by Engineer –in-Charge. The lump sum quoted by the contractor for Schedule ‘A’ Part-I 
shall include for this provision.  

 
2.2 
BLANK.    

 
2.3 
Any depth in excess of required depth in excavation shall be made good by the contractor at his 
own cost with the concrete of same proportion of foundation base concrete without any extra cost 
to Department.    

2.4 
In case timbering to uphold sides of excavation is required and specifically ordered by the GE in 
writing, it shall be paid for as deviation order. Lump sum quoted by the contractor shall not include 
use of timbering to up hold sides of excavation. 

 
2.5 
Boulders and stones obtained from excavation shall be sorted out and neatly stacked as directed 
by Engineer-in-Charge, without any extra cost to the Government. These boulders and stones in 
stack shall become the property of the Government. 

 
2.6 
Blasting of rock is prohibited, However, controlled blasting of rock with all safety precautions can 
be allowed with prior permission from GE and users. Excavation in hard rock (if met with during 
excavation) shall be done by chiseling or by any other agreed mechanical method by a prior 
written order of the GE. Hard rock obtained from excavation shall be dumped at low lying area at a 
distance not exceeding 10KM from the site as directed by GE/ Engineer-in-charge and lumpsum 
quoted by the bidder shall include the above provision. The Contractor may use the stone obtained 
from excavation for Schedule ‘A’ Part-I (Buildings & Structures) after testing and approval of GE. 
Testing charges shall be borne by the contractor. The nature and type of rock met with, will be 
decided by the GE whose decision shall be final and binding. Entire Stone obtained from 
excavation in respect of Schedule ‘A’ Part-I (Buildings & Structures) shall be entered in the 
measurement book duly signed by the contractor and Engineer-in-Charge.  The rate of recovery 
for the hard rock used in Schedule ‘A’ Part-I (Buildings & Structures) only shall be Rs. 
850/- per Cum on “To be abstracted” MB quantity (i.e., without considering voids) 
 
2.7 
BLANK. 

 
2.8 
DEWATERING: No extra payment over the lump sum amount quoted for buildings and services 
shall be admissible for dewatering, if water is met with or accumulated in the foundations or any 
other excavations due to any cause whatsoever and for excavation in mud.  Bailing and pumping 
of water, if required, shall be done as described in para 3.17 of MES Schedule Part-I. In the event 
of deviation, no price adjustment shall be made for cost of bailing, pumping etc, and dewatering 
as specified herein before whether these are actually required and done at site or not. 
 
2.9 
DISPOSAL OF SOIL: Surplus soil / useless soil obtained from excavation in foundation of buildings 
and soil obtained from surface dressing shall be removed, deposited and levelled at places, to a 
distance upto 10.0KM as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge, without any extra cost to 
Department.   

 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 228 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

2.10 
HARD CORE: The material for hard core shall be broken granite stone of size not exceeding 63 
mm from the quarries approved by the GE. The hard core shall be watered and well rammed.  It 
shall be provided all as per specification laid down in Para 3.27 of MES Schedule Part – I [2009]. 
Hard core shall be provided at location and to the thickness as indicated on drawings.  Thickness 
of hard core shown on drawings shall be the consolidated thickness. 
 
2.11 
FILLING UNDER FLOORS: 

 
2.11.1 Approved soil obtained from excavation [Other than those obtained from surface excavation and 

surface dressing] shall be used for filling in foundation up to ground level of developed area and 
under floor. No charges shall be levied for the use of soil obtained from excavation for filling.  
Nothing extra is payable on this account. Filling shall be spread, levelled, watered and well 
rammed in layers not exceeding 25 cm thick. 

2.11.2 Any additional earth required for purpose of filling shall be arranged by the Contractor from 

outside MD land of any lead at no extra cost to the Department. Expansive or other unsuitable soil 
obtained from excavation shall not be used in filling. The decision of Engineer-in-Charge as to 
whether the soil obtained from excavation is suitable or not for filling, either partly or fully, shall 
be final and binding.  If the quantity of suitable soil obtained from excavation falls short of the 
filling required, the contractor shall bring the requisite quantity of earth from the places approved 
by the ENGINEER-IN-CHARGE, without any extra cost to the Government. 
 
3.0 
PRE-CONSTRUCTION ANTITERMITE CHEMICAL TREATMENT: 
 
3.1 
The work of anti-termite treatment [pre-construction except mound treatment] shall be carried 
out all as specified in Para 3.26 of MES Schedule Part I,  to buildings covered under Schedule 
“A” Part I  except for Serial Item No. 24 to 35.   It shall be got executed through a 
specialist firm or agency who is a member of Indian Pest Control Association holding valid license 
as per clause 13 of insecticides Act 1968 and persons employed to do the work of anti-termite 
treatment shall be qualified as per Rule 10 of Insecticides Rules 1971. 
 
3.2 
Anti-termite treatment shall be carried out with emulsion of chemical Chloropyrifos 20 % EC [IS-
8944: 1978], as per IS 6313 Parts I & II of 2001. Concentration by weight percent of chemicals 
shall be as indicated by the manufacturer and shall be used for different stages of treatment as 
stipulated in relevant IS.  
   
3.3 
The main contractor shall be responsible to furnish guarantee for at-least 10 years for the 
effectiveness of pre-construction anti-termite treatment carried out by specialist firm and for 
periodical check-up of the treatment carried out by the firm at suitable intervals as mutually 
agreed upon by the GE and contractor.  If on such periodical inspection any termite activities are 
noticed the same shall be got rectified by the contractor at no extra cost to Govt.    
 
3.4 
Chemical used for anti-termite treatment shall be treated as proprietary item and the quantity 
procured shall be recorded in measurement book duly signed by Engineer-in-Charge and the 
contractor indicating the brand, name of Chemical, batch number, date of manufacturing, date of 
expiry etc,. 
 
3.5 
Should the GE at any time during the construction or prior to the expiration of Guarantee period, 
finds that any Building / Structure showing any sign of infestation with termites of any type, the 
contractor shall, on demand in writing from the GE specifying the location complained of, 
notwithstanding that the same may have been inadvertently passed / certified and paid for, 
undertake to carry out such treatment at his own expense as may be necessary forthwith to 
render the building [s] free from termite infestation to the full satisfaction of GE. In the event of 
his failure to do so, within the period as specified by the GE in his aforesaid demand, the GE may 
undertake such treatment as may be necessary through other agency at the risk and cost of the 
contractor in all respects. The liability of the contractor under this condition shall not extend 
beyond the period of  10 Years  from the certified date of completion, unless the GE had 
previously given notice to the contractor to rectify the defects. Condition – 46 of General 
Conditions of Contracts [IAFW – 2249] shall be deemed to be amended to the extent mentioned 
above. 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 229 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

3.6 
The contractor shall provide a plaster plate of requisite size but not less than 45 cm x 30 cm in 
situation as decided by the Engineer-in-Charge on the wall of each of the building. The plate shall 
be 10mm thick in cement mortar [1:4] to indicate the C. A. No., Name of the contractor, name of 
agency who executed the work, the date of completion of the work and the date of expiry of 10 
years guarantee for anti-termite treatment by engraving and painting [black]. The cost of plaster 
plates is deemed to be included in the Lumpsum quoted for the buildings. 
 
3.7 
The security deposit referred to in Condition 22 of General Conditions of Contracts [IAFW-2249] is 
independent of the guarantee amount referred under this Condition. Condition 10, 46 and 68 of 
General Conditions of Contracts [IAFW-2249] shall be deemed to be amended to the extent 
mentioned above. 
 
3.8 
[a] The chemical shall be procured only from manufacturers or their authorised agents/dealers.  
 
 [b] Chemicals brought to site in sealed containers bearing ISI Certification Marks shall only be 
permitted to be used.  
   
 [c] Chemicals shall be stored carefully at site.  Seal of the containers shall be broken only in the 
presence of the Engineer-in-Charge. Empty containers should be got removed off the site 
promptly.  If on any particular day the contents of full containers could not be used in the work, 
the containers should be got sealed at the end of the day in the presence of Engineer-in-Charge 
and opened when required, also in the presence of the Engineer-in-Charge.  
 
[d] The Engineer-in-Charge should ensure that paid voucher for the full quantity of chemicals 
required are brought to site and a record of such vouchers should be kept by the Engineer-in 
Charge.  
   
[e] Tests may be carried out in a recognised laboratory or test house at the discretion of the GE, of 
the chemical brought by the agency executing the work, to satisfy that spurious materials are not 
being used.  
  
[f] Copy of IS-6313 Parts I &II of 2001 should be available at site. 
 
3.9 
The amount of security deposit for anti-termite-treatment to be carried out for the buildings 
included in Schedule “A” Part-I against guarantee period for Anti-termite-treatment  shall be 3% 
of the cost of the anti-termite-treatment  or  Rs. 50000/-   whichever is higher  as decided 
by the GE which shall be retained by the Government from the contractor’s dues. This amount shall 
only be released after successful expiry of the guarantee period. The contractor may however, 
furnish a fixed deposit receipt in lieu, from a Schedule bank, pledged in favour of Garrison Engineer 
for the period of Guarantee in which case the amount if any, deducted from the dues/final bill shall 
be refunded. 
 
4 
CONCRETE: 
 
4.1 
Contractor shall submit quality assurance plan for concrete works to the GE within one month of 
the acceptance of the tender for approval of GE.  The GE shall approve the same in writing.  GE 
and contractor shall ensure that every person involved in the concrete work shall establish and 
implement a quality Assurance plan.  The responsibility and tasks of all persons involved in the 
work shall be defined. The following documents shall be maintained: - 
[a] Test reports and manufactures certificate for material. [b] Concrete mix design details. [c] Pour 
card for site organization indicating, location of concrete, type of concrete, water cement ratio, 
proposition of concrete, ingredient for day adopted, surface moisture content of aggregate, 
weather, temperature of concrete, cement consumed and test specimen detail etc. [d] Non-
conformance report, change orders. [e] Statistical analysis. 
 
4.2 
COARSE AGGREGATE: Coarse aggregate for all cement concrete works shall be graded crushed 
granite stone all as specified and shall conform to the grading given in clause 4.4.7 [I] of MES 
Schedule Part – I, Stone for coarse aggregate shall be obtained from quarries approved by the 
Garrison Engineer. Mixture of two types shall however, not be used. Nominal sizes of graded stone 
aggregate in various situations shall be as indicated hereinafter. Size and grading of aggregate for 
reinforced concrete shall be as specified in IS-456: 2000 but in no case more than 20 mm graded 
aggregate. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 230 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

 
4.3 
FINE AGGREGATE:   Fine aggregate for concrete work shall confirm to materials specifications and 
grading within the limits of  grading zones II or III  all as specified in clause 4.4 to 4.4.7.3 of 
MES Schedule Part-I. Contractor may without any extra cost in lieu of river sand use manufactured 
sand (crushed stone sand) produced from hard granite/basalt/black trap stone, having cubical 
shaped particles with grounded edges of ground gradation zone II/III as per IS 383-1970 as 
applicable. In the market it is known as M-sand/ Robo sand/I-sand etc. For pricing deviations, SSR 
rates shall only be applicable without any price adjustment for manufactured sand.  However 
manufactured sand shall be used only in concrete and masonry works.  For plastering, 
river sand shall only be used. The sand shall be stored at site in dumps. The contractor shall take 
necessary precaution to avoid contamination or risk of shovelling of earth or other impurities by 
keeping sand over firm level ground as stipulated in IS-4082 
 
4.4 
WATER: Water used in the work shall be clean, fresh, potable and non-saline all as specified in IS 
– 456 and in clause 4.9 of MES Schedule Part - I.  
 
4.5 
CEMENT: 
 
4.5.1 
 

GENERAL: Cement required for the work under the contract shall be procured, supplied and 
incorporated in the works by the contractor under his own arrangement. Cement shall be of tested 
quality and shall comply with the requirements mentioned in the drawings, MES Schedule, IS 
specifications as amended and particular specifications given hereinafter. 
 
4.5.2 
Type of cement for the subject work shall be Ordinary Portland Cement Grade 43 [Forty Three] in 
accordance with IS – 8112 or Portland Slag cement conforming to IS – 455 or Portland Puzzolona 
Cement [PPC] as per IS – 1489 [subject to conditions mentioned hear-in-after] at the option of 
contractor without any price adjustment unless otherwise mentioned in structural drawings 
forming part of the tender documents. However, one type of cement shall only be used in the 
entire work. 
 
4.5.3 
When the contractor opts for using PPC in the work, GE can allow incorporation of PPC subject to 
following:- 
 
[a] GE is required to ensure that PPC meets the strength criteria of 43 Grade OPC as laid down in 
IS – 1812. 
[b] The minimum period before striking formwork given in clause 11.3.1 of IS – 456 is to be 
suitably modified at sites by the GE.  
   
[c] The contractor shall give an undertaking that he shall not claim anything extra whatsoever on 
account of extra time for stripping form work etc while using PPC in lieu of OPC.  
  
[d] In cold climate regions where temperature is lower than 15˚C and important structures like 
Over Head Reservoirs, Under Ground Sumps and Buildings with spans 10m or more only OPC shall 
be used.  
   
[e] Mixing of OPC and PPC shall not be allowed in work except for plaster and mortar.  
   
[f] While procuring PPC the following requirements are to be ensured and certificate to that effect 
shall be obtained for each batch from the manufacturers.  
   
[i] The quality of fly ash is strictly as per IS – 1489 [Part – I].  
   
[ii] Fly ash is inter-ground with clinker not mixed with clinker.  
  
[iii] Dry fly ash is transported in closed containers and stored in silos.  
  
[iv] Only pneumatic pumping has been used.  
  
[v] The fly ash received from thermal power plants using high temperature combustion above 
1000˚C has been used.  
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 231 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

4.5.4 
SOURCES OF PROCUREMENT: 
 
4.5.4.1 Cement [All type of cement] shall be procured by the contractor from any of the following main 

producers of cement:- 

 
 

Sl. 
No 

Company name & Brand 
Address 

 

i. 
The Associated Cement Companies 
Ltd.  Brand:  “ACC”  

414-421, Splendor Forum (4 th  Floor), 3, District 
Centre, Jasola, New Delhi-110044, Ph-011-46583600 

 
ii. 
Ultra Tech Cement Ltd 
Brand:  “ULTRATECH”  

‘B’ Wing , 2 nd  Floor, Mahakali Caves Road, Andheri 
(East), Mumbai-400093, Ph-022-66917800 

 
iii. 
The  India Cement  
Dhun Building, 827, Anna Salai, Chennai-600002 
 
iv. 
Dalmia Cement (Bharat)Ltd 
Brand:  “DALMIA INFRA PRO”   

Dalmiapuram, Distt- Truchirappalli, Tamil Nadu-
621651 

v. 
Century Cements 
Brand:  “CENTURY”  

Industry House, 159, Church gate, Reclamation, 
Mumbai – 400020, Ph-022 22023936 
vi. 
Saurashtra Cement 
 
Brand:  “SAURASHTRA”  

Gala No A-1, Ground Floor, Udhyog Sadan No 3 
MIDC, Central Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai-400093  
Ph-022 32955557/67, Mo-9320290081 
vii. 
The Ramco Cements Ltd. (Formerly 
Madras cement) 
Brand:  “RAMCO”  

Auras Corporate Centre , 98-A Dr. Radhakrishnan 
Salai, Mylapore, Chennai-600004, Ph-044 28478666 

viii 
Mangalam Cement Ltd 
Brand:  “MANGALAM”  

PO Adityanagar, Morak, Dist-Kota, Rajasthan-326520 
Ph- 9351468076 
ix. 
Birla Corporation Ltd 
Brand : “BIRLA”  

Birla Building (3 rd  & 4 th  Floor) 9/1, R.N Mukherjee 
Road Kolkata-700001, Ph-033 30573700 
x. 
Orient Cement 
Brand:  “ORIENT”  

5-9-22/57/D, 2 nd  and 3 rd  Floor, GP Birla Centre, 
Adarsh Nagar, Hyderabad -500063, Pin-044 
23688600 
xi. 
Nuvoco Vistas Corporation Ltd 
(Formerly Lafarge Cement) 
Brand:  “NUVOCO”  

Equinox Business Park Tower-3, East Wing, 4 th  Floor 
LBS Marg, Kurla (West), Kurla Mumbai, Maharashtra-
400070 
xii. 
Shree Cement  
Brand : ”SHREE”  

Bangur Nagar, Beawar, Dist-Ajmer, Rajasthan-
305901, Ph-01462228101-06 
 
xiii. 
J K Cement  
Brand : ”JK”  

Kamla Tower, Kanpur - 208001 
 
xiv. 
J K Lakshmi Cement Ltd 
Brand : ”JK LAKSHMI”  

Jaykaypuram, Dist-Sirohi, Rajasthan -307019, Ph – 
02971-244409/10 
xv. 
Jaypee Rewa Cement  
Brand : ”JAYPEE”  

Jaypee Nagar, Rewa-486450, MP 

xvi. 
Ambuja Cement Ltd  
Brand : ”AMBUJA”  

Kodinar, PO-Ambujanagar, Taluka – Kodinar, Dist – 
Junagadh, Gujarat -362715 Ph 02795-237000 
xvii. My Home Industries Ltd  

Brand : ”MAHA CEMENT”  

9 th  floor, Block -3, My Home Hub, Madhapur, 
Hydrabad – 500081, Ph 040- 44119100/200 
xviii 
JSW Cement Ltd, AP  
Brand : ”JSW PSC”  

JSW Centre, Opp MIMRDA Ground, Bandra Kurla 
Complex, Bandra [East] Mumbai - 400051 
xix 
Sagar Cements Ltd 
Brand : ”SAGAR”  

Plot No. 111, Road No. 10, Jubilee Hills, Hydrabad – 
500 033 Ph : 040 - 23351571 
 
 
 
 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 232 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

4.5.4.2 The contractor shall furnish the particulars of the manufacturer / main producers of cement along 

with the date of manufacture to the Garrison Engineer for every lot of cement separately. The 
cement so brought shall be fresh and in no case older than 60 days from the date of manufacture. 
The Garrison Engineer shall verify the documents in support of the purchases of cement. Before 
placing the order for supply of cement by the contractor, he shall obtain written approval from the 
GE regarding name of manufacturer, quantity of cement etc. Cement shall be procured for 
minimum requirement of one month and not exceeding the requirement for more than two 
months at a time. The cement shall be consumed in the work within three months after receipt. 
Cement shall conform to the requirement of Indian Standard specification and each bag of cement 
shall bear relevant ISI mark. The weight of each consignment shall be verified by the GE and 
recorded. The content of cement shall be checked at random to verify the actual weight of cement 
per bag. However, each bag of cement shall be of nominal average net mass of 50 KGs, subject to 
tolerance given in clause 9.2 and Annexure "B" of IS – 8112 and in relevant clause of IS – 1489.  
 
4.5.4.3 If due to some unforeseen circumstances which are beyond the control of the contractor, cement 

is not used within 03 months, the same shall be retested and shall be used in the work only after 
taking prior approval of Accepting Officer.  Permission to use cement more than 03 months old 
shall be given only in exceptional cases where Accepting Officer is satisfied with the grounds put 
up by the contractor and cement still meets all the requirements of IS. No claim whatsoever shall 
be entertained if permission to use cement more than 3 months old is not given to contractor. 
 
4.5.5 
TESTING OF CEMENT 
 
4.5.5.1 The contractor shall submit the manufacturer’s test certificate in original along with test sheet 

giving the result of each physical test as applicable in accordance with the relevant IS provision 
and the chemical composition of cement or authenticated copy thereof, duly signed by the 
manufacturer with each consignment, as per the following IS provision: 
 
 
[a] 
Method of sampling hydraulic cement as per IS  –  3535. 
[b] 
Methods of physical test for hydraulic cements as per IS – 4031. 
[c] 
Method of chemical analysis of hydraulic cement as per IS – 4032. 
The test sheet should include results of the following mandatory tests: 
[i] 
Specific surface by Blains air Permeability method 
[ii] 
Soundness Test by Le’Chatlier method 
[iii] 
Initial setting time 
[iv] 
Final Setting time 
[v] 
Compressive strength test at 3, 7 & 28 days as specified in the relevant 
IS code. 
[vi] 
The test report should also show the chemical properties of the cement 
as per relevant IS codes. 
 
4.5.5.2 The test certificate and test sheet shall be furnished with each batch of manufacture. The 

Engineer-in-Charge shall record these details in the cement acceptance register to be maintained 
by him which will be signed by JE [Civil], Engineer-in-Charge, Garrison Engineer and the 
contractor as given in the format hereinafter for verification. 
 
4.5.5.3 The contractor shall however, organise setting time and a compressive strength test of cement 

through designated laboratory on samples collected from the lot brought at site before 
incorporation in work.  The contractor will be allowed to use the cement only after satisfactory 
compressive strength of seven days. To meet this requirement contractor is required to keep 
minimum 10 days stock before any new lot brought at site, which can be used, in the work. The 
contractor shall be required to remove the cement not meeting the requirement from site within 
24 hours. Seven days strength test will be relied upon to accept the lot of cement to commence 
the work. 28 days compressive strength test will be the final criteria to accept/reject the lot. 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 233 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.5.5.4. The GE shall carryout independent testing as per the tests mentioned in the “CEMENT SUPPLY / 

ACCEPTANCE FORM” of random samples of cement drawn from various lots, if sample fails in 7 days 
compressive strength. The testing shall be carried out through National Test House / SEMT Wing / 
Government Approved Laboratories / NABL Accredited Laboratories / Regional Research Laboratories / 
IIT / National Institute of Technology / Command Testing Lab as per IS – 3535 [Method of sampling 
Hydraulic Cement], IS – 4031 [Method of Physical Test for Hydraulic Cement] and IS – 4032 [Method of 
Chemical Analysis of Hydraulic Cement] referred to above.  The decision as to where the testing of 
cement is to be done shall be taken by GE.  In case the cement is not of requisite standard despite 
manufacturer’s test certificate, the contractor shall remove the total consignment from the site at his 
own cost after written rejection order of the consignment by the GE.  The cost of test shall be borne by 
the contractor irrespective of the results of testing. 

4.5.5.5. The random samples as per relevant IS shall be selected by GE before carrying out testing. The record 

of such samples selected by the GE for testing shall be properly maintained in the `Cement Testing 
Register’ giving cross reference to relevant consignment of cement and quantity received etc. 

4.5.5.6. Cost of transportation of samples to the approved laboratory / test house and all testing charges 

including cost of sample shall be borne by the contractor. 

4.5.5.7. The contractor shall be required to set up adequate testing facilities at site to the entire satisfaction of 

Garrison Engineer for conducting setting time test and compressive strength test as per IS codes 
referred to hereinbefore for the samples collected from the lot brought  at site.  These tests shall be 
carried out within 7 days of receipt of cement at site.  The tests can alternatively be carried out at the 
Command Testing Lab, or any other recognised laboratory so designated by GE. 

4.5.5.8. The contractor shall submit original purchase vouchers for the total quantity of cement supplied under 

each consignment to be incorporated in the work.  All consignments received at the work site shall be 
inspected by the GE along with the relevant documents to ensure the requirements as mentioned 
herein before, before acceptance. The original purchase vouchers and the test certificates shall be 
verified for subject contract and defaced by the Engineer-in-Charge and kept on record in the office of 
the Garrison Engineer duly authenticated and with cross reference to the consignment/control number 
recorded in the Cement Acceptance Register.  The cement acceptance register shall be signed by the JE 
[Civil], Engineer-in-Charge, GE and the Contractor. The contractor shall maintain schedule of supply of 
cement for each consignment. 

4.5.5.9. The Accepting Officer may order a board of officers for random check of cement and verification of 

connected documents during the currency of contract. 

4.5.6. 
STORAGE/ACCOUNTING/PRESERVATION OF CEMENT:  

4.5.6.1. Cement shall be stored in covered godown over dry platform at least 20 cm high in such a manner as to 

prevent deterioration due to moisture or intrusion of foreign matter.  In case of store room, the stack 
should be at least 20 cm away from floors and walls.  The stacking of cement shall be done as specified 
in relevant IS.  The storage accounting and preservation of cement supplied by the contractor shall be 
done as per standard engineer practice till the same is incorporated in the work and the cost of the 
same shall be deemed to be included in the unit rate/amount quoted by the tenderer.  The Engineer-in-
Charge shall inspect once a day to verify that cement lying at site is stored, accounted, preserved and 
maintained as per the norms.  The cement shall be stored so as to differentiate each tested and 
untested consignment separately with distinct storage/preservation of cement, he may order for any 
test[s] of cement as applicable for that consignment to ensure its conformity to the quality mentioned 
in the manufacturer’s test certificate.  The contractor shall bear the cost of necessary testing[s] in this 
regard and no claim whatsoever shall be entertained. 

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 234 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.5.6.2. Stacking of cement shall be done as per relevant IS and as under: 

[a]  
Each cement consignment shall be stacked separately and removal shall be made on the 
basis of “First in First out”.   
[b]   
Adequate top cover will be provided. 
4.5.6.3. Cement godown shall be provided with two locks on each door.  The key of one lock at each door shall 

remain with the Engineer-in-Charge or his representative and that of the other lock with the 
contractor’s authorised agent at site of works so that cement is removed from the godown only 
according to daily requirement with the knowledge of both the parties. During the period of storage, if 
any cement bag[s] found to be in damaged condition due to whatsoever reason, the same shall be 
removed from the cement godown on written orders of the GE and suitable replacement for the cement 
bag[s] so removed shall be made and no claim whatsoever shall be admissible on this account. 

4.5.6.4. Cement shall be removed from the store only according to daily requirement with the knowledge of 

both the parties and daily consumption of cement shall be recorded in cement consumption register 
which shall be signed by the Engineer-in-Charge and the contractor. Cement constants given in 
Appendix “A” to E-in-C’s Branch letter No. 19280 / E8 dated 03 May 1976 shall form the basis of 
consumption of cement for various items of works unless specifically indicated otherwise. 

4.5.6.5. In case the consumption  of cement as per cement consumption register is found to be more than the 

estimated quantity of cement due to whatsoever reason, the contractor shall not have any claim 
whatsoever for such excess consumption of cement. 

4.5.7. 
SCHEDULE OF SUPPLY:  The contractor shall procure the cement timely as required in accordance 
with CPM chart agreed between GE and the contractor.  The contractor will forfeit his right to demand 
extension of time if the supply of cement got delayed due to his failure in placing order in time to the 
manufacturer. 

4.6. 
MEASUREMENT AND PAYMENT OF CEMENT:  

4.6.1. 
The entire quantity of cement shall also be suitably recorded in the Measurement Book for record 
purposes as “Not to be Abstracted” before incorporation in the work and shall be signed by the 
Engineer-in-Charge and the contractor. 

4.6.2. 
The payment shall only be allowed after production of original purchase vouchers, certified copies of 
test certificates from manufacturer for each consignment and results of testing carried out in laboratory 
on receipt of cement [7 Days Compressive Test] are found satisfactory after testing as specified herein 
before.  Cement shall be paid as material lying at site as per Condition 64 of IAFW – 2249. Rate of 
cement given in MES Schedule shall be applicable for cement irrespective of grade of cement specified 
for use in the work. 

4.7. 
DOCUMENTATION:  

4.7.1. 
The following documents will be maintained by the Engineer-in-Charge / GE for cement supplied by the 
contractor in addition to the documents specified in the contract: 

[a] 
Original vouchers of cement shall be kept in the concerned file of the contract in GE Office, 
serially numbered on each page. 
[b] 
Original test certificates and test sheet should also be kept in the concerned file of the 
contract duly numbered. 
[c]    
Cement acceptance register as per  Annexure “A” & Annexure “B” . 
[d]    
In / Out Register for cement as per  Annexure “C” . 
[e]    
Register containing results of independent and additional testing by GE. 
[f]     
Register containing records of surprise checks and BOO. 
[g]    
Inspection Register. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 235 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.8      
CEMENT CONCRETE: 

4.8.1  
TYPE OF CONCRETE:  Type of concrete with nominal size of coarse aggregate required for works in 
various situations unless otherwise specifically mentioned elsewhere or shown on drawings or notes 
thereon and structural notes, etc., shall be as under: 

[a] 
PCC in Foundation & PCC in 
Foundation of Dwarf Wall 

PCC 1:4:8 Type D2 [using 40 mm graded stone 
aggregate] by volume 

[b] 
Concrete Pre-Cast Blocks, Padding 
and Coping. 

PCC 1:3:6 Type C1 [using 20mm Graded stone 
aggregate] by volume 

[c] 
PCC in all Other Situations 
PCC 1:2:4 Type B1 [using 20mm graded stone 
aggregate] by volume                                                   

[d] 
RCC works as in Sub-structure.       

Design Mix controlled concrete of Grade  M40  or 
contractor may use  RMC-M40 Design Mix  without 
any extra cost. 

[e] 
RCC works as in Super structure.      

Design Mix controlled concrete of Grade  M35  or 
contractor may use  RMC-M35 Design Mix  without 
any extra cost. 

[f] 
RCC 
work 
in 
water 
retaining 
structures, 
Static 
water 
tanks 
swimming 
pool, 
Diving 
pool, 
Balancing tank etc., 

Self-compacted concrete of Grade M40. 

[g] 
All 
other 
RCC 
works 
except 
mentioned above 

Design Mix controlled concrete of Grade M40. 

 

 4.8.2.  BATCHING, MIXING, DEPOSITING AND RAMMING: 

4.8.2.1. 
Controlled concrete materials shall be batched by weight only. Combined batching with digital weighing 
system and mixing plant with auto cut off and computer printout facility shall be used for concreting. 
The capacity of mini batching plant provided at site shall be adequate enough to execute the work as 
per the CPM, or otherwise the contractor shall provide single batching plant of higher capacity or more 
number of batching plants of adequate capacities as required at site, as asked by the GE.  No claim 
what so ever arising out on this account is admissible.  The decision of GE in this regard shall be final 
and binding.  The plant/plants shall have the digital system of adding specified quantity of water into 
concrete mix as per the design mix requirement.  

4.8.2.2. 
Water shall be measured either by volume in calibrated tanks or weighed.  All measuring equipments 
shall be kept in a clean serviceable condition and their accuracy checked periodically. 

4.8.2.3. 
Provisions as in clause 4.11.3.2 to 4.11.3.5 of MES Schedule Part-I shall be followed.  All batching of 
concrete and accuracy of batching shall be as per Clause 10.2 of IS – 456. 

4.8.2.4. 
The mixing shall be done for at least 2 minutes and until a uniform colour and consistency is achieved. 

4.8.2.5.   Quantity of concrete mixed in any one batch shall not exceed the rated capacity of the mixer. The 

whole of the mixed batch shall be removed before materials for fresh batch enter the drum. Concrete 
mix as approved shall not be modified by addition of water or otherwise in order to facilitate handling 
for any other purpose. On ceasing of work and other stoppage exceeding 20 minutes, the mixer and 
other plants used for handling wet mix shall be thoroughly washed with clean water. Pickup and throw 
over blades in the drum of the mixer which are worn down 20mm or more in depth shall be replaced 
with new blades. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 236 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.8.2.6. 
All cement concrete, both plain and reinforced shall be mixed in mechanical mixer as specified in para 
4.11.5 and 4.11.5.1 of MES Schedule Part-I. However for small quantity of concreting  [other than RCC 
works] i.e., the quantity of concrete required being less than one batch of mix, the contractor may after 
obtaining written approval of Engineer in charge which shall be exceptional, adopt hand mix subject to 
addition of 10% extra cement without price adjustment where hand mixing permitted, it shall be 
carried out on a concrete platform and care shall be taken to ensure that mixing is continued until the 
concrete is uniform in colour and consistency. 

4.8.2.7. All cement concrete both plain and reinforced concrete, shall be deposited and compacted all as 

specified in Clause 4.11.10 and 4.11.11 of MES Schedule Part-I. However, RCC work in columns, 
foundation, beams, walls, chajjas and slabs etc., shall be compacted using mechanical vibrator, 
compaction of lean concrete shall be carried out by ramming and consolidated by tamping and rodding 
as specified.  In the event of breakdown of mechanical mixer and vibrator, the contractor must have 
arrangements for standby mechanical   mixer and vibrator.  

4.8.3. 
DESIGN MIX CONCRETE [CONTROLLED CONCRETE]:  

4.8.3.1. Grade of design mix concrete shall be as specified hereinbefore and shall be as referred to in IS – 456 

and as specified hereinafter. Design mix concrete may also be referred to as controlled concrete. Mix 
design shall be done as per IS - 10262 [Recommended Guidelines for Design Mix Concrete] and as 
described in SP – 23 [An IS Publication]. 

4.8.3.2. The requirement of cement per cubic meter of controlled concrete of grade M40 shall be as per IS - 

456. The actual requirement of cement for the controlled concrete shall be ascertained by the tests as 
specified hereinafter. The design mix shall be carried out for SEVERE environment conditions and good 
quality control. The tenderer shall ascertain the quantity of cement required and quote the lump sum 
accordingly. No claim whatsoever arising on account of quantity of actual cement incorporate in the 
work on account of design mix is admissible. 

4.8.3.2.1 [a] Contractor shall use liquid admixtures [Super plasticizers] to achieve the work-ability and to reduce 

the water content in design mix. Admixtures shall confirm to IS 9103: 1999 shall be from approved 
manufacturers as given below: 

[i] 
FOSROC Chemicals [India] Ltd.   

[ii] 
Roffe Construction Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. 

[iii] 
STP Speciality Chemicals Ltd.     

[iv] 
CICO Technologies Ltd 

[b]  
Para 5.5 of IS 456: 2000 be also referred for quality of admixtures. 

[c]  
For maximum dose of admixtures, please refer para 10.3.3 of IS – 456. 

[d]  
Various tests as specified in IS – 9103 shall be carried out for each batch of Admixtures at 
contractor’s cost. 

[e]  
Contractor shall submit original purchase voucher and test certificate of manufacturer for 
complete quantity of admixtures used in the work before claiming payment for the same. 

[f]  
Complete quantity of admixtures including name of manufacturer, its brand name, date of 
manufacturing, date of expiry, voucher No. and details of test certificates shall be entered in 
MB as “Not to be Abstracted” duly signed by JE, Engineer-in-Charge, GE and representative 
of contractor before making payment in RAR. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 237 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.8.3.3. As soon as possible after receiving the work order to commence the work, the contractor shall submit 

samples of the materials required for preparing design mix concrete viz. cement, coarse aggregate, fine 
aggregate and admixtures for approval of GE and intimate the place out of the following where they 
propose to carry out the design mix and preliminary tests: -  

[i] 
College of Engineering, Andhra University 

[ii] 
College of Engineering, GITAM University 

[iii] 
Material Testing House [India] Ltd., Visakhapatnam. 

[iv] 
Regional Research Laboratory 

[v] 
Government Approved Laboratory  

[vi] 
NABL Accredited Laboratory. 

4.8.3.4.   The cement used in the work shall be as specified here- in- before.  Coarse aggregate shall be crushed 

stone aggregate. The gradation shall be followed as per clause 4.2 table 2 of IS – 383 to obtain 
maximum density.  

4.8.3.5. After the samples of all the materials are approved by GE in writing sufficient quantities of these 

materials shall be forwarded by GE at contractor’s expense for carrying out design mixes. 

4.8.4. 
PRELIMINARY TESTS:  

4.8.4.1. Preliminary tests are tests conducted on the trial mixes of concrete produced in the laboratory with the 

object of: 

[i] 
Designing concrete mixes before the actual concreting operation starts. 

[ii] 
Determining the adjustments required in the design, when there is change in the materials 
used during execution of work. 

[iii] 
Verifying the strength of concrete mix at 28 day  

4.8.4.2. The preliminary tests shall consist of 3 separate sets of tests covering possible variation of gradation of 

aggregates and each set of test using a minimum 7 cubes of size 150 mm x 150 mm x 150 mm and 
one slump test. Three cubes shall be tested at 7 days to get indication of minimum strength of 28 days. 
Other 03 cubes shall be tested at 28 days and 01 cube shall be preserved for Government use for 
subsequent testing.  The compressive strength tests of cubes shall be performed as per IS-516. Casting 
of cubes and testing of these cubes shall be carried out in the presence of contractor’s representative, 
GE / GE’s representative and representative of Accepting Officer. It will be contractor’s responsibility to 
ensure that design mix is carried out at the earliest. Contractor shall ensure that design mix 
calculations, supporting trail mix [03 Nos] details and test results of trial mixes along with 
recommended trial mix are submitted to GE at the earliest for his further action.  Based on test results, 
the GE shall approve the design mix in writing. Copy of approved design mix shall be submitted to 
Accepting Officer within 10 days of approval by GE.  The testing charges for the design mix and the 
tests conducted shall be borne by the contractor. The cost of materials, labour and transport shall also 
be borne by the contractor.    

4.8.5. 
WORK TEST:  

4.8.5.1. The work tests shall be carried out at Site Lab / Govt approved labs at Visakhapatnam or Command 

Testing Lab situated in the premises of Chief Engineer [Navy], Visakhapatnam Zone. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 238 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.8.5.2. Work test shall be conducted as per Clause 15 of IS – 456. At the commencement of the concreting, 

samples of concrete shall be taken on each day as specified in Clause 15 of IS – 456 and specimens 
made at the work site out of the concrete being used in the works, for the purpose of testing 
compressive strength. 

 4.8.5.3. From each of these samples, 7 test cubes of size 150 x 150 x 150 mm shall be taken to test 3 

specimens at 7 days and 3 specimens at 28 days in Command Testing Lab. C. A. No., date of casting 
and location where concrete is being used shall be marked on each concrete cube. One test cube of 
preliminary and work test shall be preserved duly marking the date of casting and CA No. for 
verification / subsequent testing, if required.  The cube shall be preserved by the GE / Engineer-in-
Charge until the defects liability period of the work is over.      

4.8.5.4. The testing charges for the work tests conducted in the Command Testing Lab shall be at the rate 

mentioned hereinafter in Particular specifications and the same shall be effected from the payments 
due to the contractor in RAR / Final bill whichever is earlier.  The cost of materials, labour and transport 
shall be borne by the contractor. The lump sum quoted shall include the cost of testing the concrete 
cubes both for design mix / volumetric mix. 

4.8.5.5. In the event of contractor setting up the laboratory at site as specified here in before in Special 

Conditions, the contractor shall carry out cube testing in site lab, in presence of Engineer-in-Charge and 
as specified here in before.  However, random testing up to 5 percent of total tests to check the 
compressive strength of cube shall be carried out in Command Testing Lab for which testing charges 
shall be recovered from the contractor at the rate mentioned hereinafter.  Contractor shall include this 
aspect in his Lumpsum while quoting his rates. 

4.8.5.6. The Engineer-in-Charge shall maintain the record for all the tests carried out in Site Lab / Command 

Testing Lab separately.  The cost of testing including material, labour etc., incurred shall be borne by 
the contractor and the Lumpsum quoted shall be deemed to include this. 

4.8.6. 
MIXING: 

4.8.6.1. The mix design and also execution of work shall be carried out by weigh batching.  The quantum of 

cement for execution of work by weigh batching shall be as per mix design. 

4.8.6.2. It shall be ensured that the grading characteristics as adopted in the mix design are followed 

throughout. Wherever the type and/or batch of cement/aggregate is changed, a fresh mix design shall 
be carried out.  Nothing extra is payable on this account. 

4.8.6.3. The contractor during the progress of work shall not change the mix design without the prior approval 

of the GE. 

4.8.6.4. Engineer-in-Charge shall maintain a record of actual consumption of cement in proper register [other 

than the cement register mentioned in special conditions] and initial the entry for every day of quantity 
of materials issued to contractor. The register shall be got checked and signed by GE.  In case the 
consumption of cement as per cement consumption register is found to be more than the estimated 
quantity of cement due to whatsoever reason, the contractor shall not have any claim, whatsoever for 
such excess consumption of cement. 

4.8.7. 
WATER CEMENT RATIO: 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 239 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.8.7.1. It is most important to maintain the water cement ratio constant and to its correct value.  To this effect 

determination of moisture content in both fine and coarse aggregate should be made as frequently as 
possible.  The frequency for a given job shall be determined by the Engineer-in-Charge.  According to 
weather conditions the amount of water to be added shall be adjusted to compensate any variations in 
the aggregate, IS – 2390 [Part III] method of test for aggregate, for concrete, Part II specific gravity, 
density, voids, absorption and bulking of aggregates due to variation in their moisture contents shall 
apply.  The maximum quantity of water to be added shall be determined by mix design to be carried 
out as specified hereinbefore. 

4.8.7.2. Workability of concrete shall be checked at frequent intervals.  The slump test or where facilities exists 

the compacting factor test in accordance with IS – 1199 may be adopted for this purpose. 

4.8.7.3. The slump for M40 grade concrete [except for piles] 50mm to 100mm for medium degree workability as 

given in Clause 7 of IS – 456. 

4.8.7.4. Curing shall be carried out all as specified in MES Schedule Part – I.    

4.8.8.  
ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA:  As per Clause 16 of IS – 456. 

4.9. 
READY MIXED CONCRETE [RMC]: 

4.9.1 
RMC shall conform to the requirements of the following Indian Standards: 

[a] 
IS – 4926    - 
Ready Mixed Concrete     
-      
Code of Practice 

[b] 
IS – 9103  - 
Concrete Admixtures     
-      
Specifications 

[c] 
IS – 8112  -   
OPC Grade 43 or Portland  
-      
Specifications  or 

       
IS – 455 
- 
Portland Slag Cement         
-      
Specifications  or 

 
IS – 1489    - 
Portland Pozzolana Cement     
-     
Specifications 

[d] 
IS – 456    - 
Plain and Reinforced concrete 
-     
Code of Practice 

4.9.2. 
The contractor shall engage any of the following manufacturers for manufacture and supply of RMC. It 
is the responsibility of the contractor to make payments to the RMC supplier independently and the 
department is not responsible for any disputes between contractor and RMC manufacturer for non-
payment or delayed payment or on account of any other reasons. The contractor may alternatively 
establish Ready Mixed Concrete [RMC] plant of required capacity at site without any extra cost to 
Government. 

[i] 
M/s. RMC Ready Mix India Pvt. Ltd. 

[ii] 
M/s. Associated Cement Co Ltd 

[iii] 
M/s. Birla Ltd 

[iv]      
M/s LAFARGE Aggregates & Concrete Pvt Ltd, Visakhapatnam 

[v]      
M/s. Ultratec Concrete / Lafarge A & C 

[vi] 
M/s. Vipasana Concrete, Visakhapatnam  

[vii] 
M/s. Sarvani RMC, Visakhapatnam  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 240 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.9.3. 
SELECTION OF RMC MANUFACTURER:  Immediately on commencement of the work, the contractor 
shall intimate the name of manufacturer of RMC whom he proposes to engage.  

4.9.3.1. Even though the firm for manufacturing and supply of RMC to site of work is approved by the CWE / 

GE, the responsibility to maintain quality and grade of concrete fully rests with the contractor. 

4.9.4. 
MATERIALS: 

[a] 
CEMENT: Cement shall conform to specifications as specified herein before. 

[b] 
FINE AGGREGATES: Fine aggregates shall be as specified herein before. 

[c] 
COARSE AGGREGATE: The coarse aggregates shall be as specified herein before. 

[d] 
WATER: Water shall comply with the requirements as per IS – 456 and IS – 3025. 

[e] 
ADMIXTURES [LIQUID TYPE ONLY]:  

[a]  
Admixture shall be retarding super plasticizing type and shall conform to IS – 9103 and of 
approved manufacturers as given below: 

[i]  
Fosroc Chemicals [India] Ltd, Hafeefa Chambers, 2Nd Floor, 111 / 3, KH Road, Bangalore 
– 560 027 

[ii]  
Roffe Construction Chemicals Pvt Ltd, 12 – C, Vikas Centre, S V Road, Santa Cruz [W], 
Mumbai – 400 054. 

[iii]  
STP Speciality Chemicals Ltd, 16, NGN Vaidya Marg, Mumbai – 400 023. 

[iv]  
CICO Technologies Ltd, A – 9, Chitranjan Park [LGF], Outer Ring Road, New Delhi. 

[b] 
Admixture shall not exceed 1.5% of cement contents by volume in any case. 

4.9.5. 
Mix design shall be got carried out by the contractor from the approved RMC manufacturer 
incorporating materials complying with the requirements given hereinbefore. The mix design shall be 
properly bound in booklet form and submitted in triplicate  for approval by the Garrison Engineer . 
The RMC incorporated in the work shall be in accordance with the approved mix design. The CWE / GE 
/ Engineer-in-Charge / JE [Civil] who are connected with administration and execution and other 
operations connected with the execution of this work shall have access to inspect /check the quality of 
materials used for manufacturer of RMC in RMC manufacturer’s yard as well as the quality / grade of 
RMC supplied by the manufacturer. The contractor shall make all arrangements for the aforesaid 
inspections and checks as required. 

4.9.6. 
Contractor shall obtain a certificate from RMC manufacturer for the RMC supplied for each day to the 
effect that materials used for manufacturing of RMC complies strictly as per mix design requirements 
and the materials incorporated are conforming to the specifications given herein before. In addition, the 
contractor shall collect samples of materials for each days concreting in the presence of Engineer-in-
Charge which shall be tested in approved lab as specified herein before to ensure that materials used 
are as per requirement as specified.  Such tests for each material shall be made as per relevant BIS 
requirements and shall be entered in register of test results.  Register shall be signed by the contractor, 
GE, Engineer-in-Charge & JE. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 241 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.9.7. 
A register shall be maintained by the contractor duly signed by the Engineer-in-Charge showing the 
following details of RMC in addition to the information given on delivery ticket for each delivery of 
concrete [Refer Clause 9.4 and ANNEX – G of IS -  4926]: 

[i] 
Time of mixing of each batch. [ii] 
No. of batches in each delivery. 

[iii] 
Location where used in the work and reference to cube test register. 

4.9.8.  
For the RMC delivered at site and incorporated in work, sample for cube test shall be taken as per 
requirements of IS – 4926 and as specified hereinafter. 

4.9.9.  
If the condition of RMC delivered at site is not acceptable to the Engineer-in-Charge it shall be taken 
back and removed from site by the contractor at his own cost.  The decision of the GE with regard to 
non-acceptability of RMC shall be final and binding.  No claim of contractor, what so ever, shall be 
admissible on this account. Some of the conditions under which RMC can be rejected are given below: 

[a] 
Initial setting due to delay in transit. RMC shall be delivered at site of work within 2½ hours 
of mixing of first batch of concrete. 

[b] 
Segregation of aggregate due to excessive rotation of mixer during transit. 

4.9.10. 
ACCEPTANCE OF CONCRETE:  Acceptance criteria for the RMC shall be as per IS – 456. In case the 
RMC supplied and incorporated fails to meet the strength requirements as per IS – 456, work done shall 
be rejected by GE and contractor shall demolish the rejected work and re-do the same with-out extra 
payments so as to produce the work complying with the strength requirements as per IS – 456.  The 
contractor will have no claim whatsoever on this account. 

4.9.11. 
DESIGN, MANUFACTURE, TRANSPORTATION, PLACEMENT & TESTING:   

[a] The design mix shall be carried out as per the durability condition stipulated in the contract. 

Concrete mix information shall be supplied by the Contractor to the RMC manufacturer on the 
format as per Annexure D of IS – 4926, which shall form the basis of mix design. 

[b] 
RMC supplier will ensure that the concrete is transported in truck mixers conforming to IS – 
5892 to the point of placing as rapidly as possible by methods that will maintain the required 
workability and will prevent segregation, loss of any constituents or ingress of foreign matter 
or water. 

[c] 
RMC shall be used in the work only after design mix has been approved by GE in writing. 

[d] 
Contractor should plan their work in such a way so as to full load of concrete is discharged 
within 30 minutes of arrival at site and placed immediately.  Re-handling should be avoided 
as far as practicable. 

[e] 
The concrete shall be discharged from the truck mixer within 2 hours of the time of loading at 
the plant.   

[f] 
Conveying equipment’s for concrete shall be water tight, well maintained and thoroughly 
cleaned before commencement of concrete mixing. Concrete shall be transported by transit 
mixers. 

[g] 
Concrete shall not be dropped from a height, thrown or otherwise treated so that 
segregation, undesirable finish, or defective structural quality results. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 242 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[h] 
No extra water shall be added to the concrete mix after it has left the batching plant. The 
contractor shall take adequate precautions to protect concrete in transit from the effects of 
the weather. 

[j] 
Pumping operation whenever commences shall proceed continuously so as to prevent “Cold” 
joints between placed sections. Concrete less than 6 cubic metres may be deposited 
manually.  Concrete for columns may be deposited manually. 

[k] 
The delivery line of the pump shall be 100 mm dia or greater and pump shall be capable of 
pumping concrete containing 20 mm nominal size aggregate. 

[l] 
The pump shall have receiving hopper and pumping chamber shall be capable of pumping at 
least 15 Cum of concrete per hour against horizontal delivery head of at least 90 m and / or a 
vertical delivery head of 20m. 

[m]  
Pumping lines shall be of approved metallic type laid to avoid bends   the joints in pumping 
lines shall be sealed tight to prevent leakages. 

[n] 
All equipment’s, pump chamber, hoppers, lines etc. shall be kept clean at all times. Any build-
ups in the lines of materials from previous operations shall be cleaned out prior to pumping. 

[o] 
In the event of breakdown in the equipment causing delay not exceeding 20 minutes, the 
time within which concrete cannot replaced, the following procedure shall be adopted: 

“With the approval of Engineer-in-Charge, the concrete already placed shall have the “Wet 
Edge” and vibrated into mass.  Where atmospheric temperature exceeds 30 degree 
centigrade, the receiving hopper and lines shall be cleaned out and concrete contained 
therein discarded and immediately removed from the site.  The concrete shall be discarded if 
initial setting of the concrete has begun in the hopper or discharge lines.  All lines shall be 
cleaned free of concrete prior to resumption of pumping after each breakdown. Concrete in 
the lines shall be pumped at approximately 8 minutes intervals to ensure the concrete in the 
line is live, whenever delivery of concrete in the pump is delayed.  This pumping interval shall 
be reduced to 5 minutes during extra hot weather conditions. Delivery lines where exposed to 
hot sun, shall be protected by covering with gunny bags, wet hessian or other approved 
means.” 

[p] 
Due to mechanical malfunctioning, if concreting is required to be stopped, necessary 
precautionary measures shall be taken by the contractor.  Cost of any additional work caused 
due to these stoppages shall be contractor’s responsibility. 

[q] 
No concreting shall be commenced until formwork and reinforcement and other preparatory 
work required are completed, inspected and approved by the Engineer-in-Charge / GE. 

[r] 
The contractor shall take adequate precautions and strengthening measures to strengthen 
the shuttering as required to withstand the pressure that will be created due to pumping of 
concrete. 

[s] 
Slump of concrete shall be as per IS – 456 and as specified.  The workability shall be within 
the following limits on the specified value as appropriate: 

Slump 
:  
+ 25 mm or   + 1/3 of the specified value whichever is less. 

Compaction Factor :  
+ 0.03, where the specified value is 0.90 or greater + 0.04, where 
the specified value is less than 0.90 but more than 0.80 and + 0.05, 
where the specified value is 0.80 or less 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 243 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[t] 
Slump test shall be carried out at site by the contractor in the presence of Engineer-in-Charge 
/ JE.  The concrete shall be placed in position within the designed initial setting time.  At the 
end of initial setting time, the unused concrete shall be rejected. 

[u] 
The contractor shall obtain from RMC manufacturer computer printout of the data sheet of 
every batch of concrete and submit to GE. The same shall be signed by the Contractor, 
Engineer-in-Charge & JE. 

[v] 
The minimum cement content shall be as per IS: 456 - 2000 [durability criteria]. The 
minimum cement content in design mix concrete shall be 360Kg/Cum for Super Structure and 
400Kg/Cum for Sub Structure [Foundation / PBs] 

4.9.12. 
CONSOLIDATION OF CONCRETE:  Consolidation shall be done by mechanical vibrators, plate type 
for slab and needle type for other locations. 

4.9.13. 
SAMPLING AND TESTING OF READY MIX CONCRETE: 

[a] 
Allow at least the first 1/3 cum of concrete to be discharged from the truck mixer prior to 
taking any samples. Take required number of samples from the remainder of the load 
avoiding sampling the last cubic meter of concrete. Thoroughly re-mix this composite sample 
either on a mixing tray or in the sampling bucket and proceed with the required testing. 

[b] 
In addition to the tests carried out by the RMC manufacturer at the plant site, sampling and 
testing of concrete shall be carried out at the site after delivery as per IS – 456 by the 
department along with the representatives of the contractor at contractor’s expense.  

[c] 
Samples from fresh concrete shall be taken as per IS – 1199 and cubes shall be made, cured 
and tested in accordance with IS – 516 for 7 / 28 days compressive strength. The samples 
shall be taken as follows: 

Place 

Of sample 

Quantity of 

Concrete 

No of 
Samples 
Remarks 

At RMC 

Plant 

For every 6 Cu.m 

or part thereof 
1 

One sample will comprise of 4 test specimens.  

3 specimens for testing and one for preservation. 

At Site 
For every 6 Cu.m 

or part thereof 
1 

[a]  
One sample will comprise of minimum 7 test 
specimens, 3 specimens each for 7 days and 28 days 
testing and 1 specimen for preservation. 

[b]  
One sample for slump / compaction factor for 
workability. 

Note: 
[i] 
At least one sample shall be taken from each delivery. 

 
[ii]  
The test specimens will be marked showing clearly the C. A. No., date of sample, 
location and name of building / pile reference where it has been taken from. 

4.9.14. 
PRICING DEVIATIONS:  Pricing of any deviations involving M40 [Design Mix] Ready Mixed Concrete 
[RMC], shall be as per Pro-rata rates of Ready Mixed Concrete [RMC] M35 [Design Mix] concrete 
given in SSR 2020 . 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 244 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.9.15. 
GENERAL:  

4.9.15.1. Clause for cement given in Para 4.5 hereinbefore shall be applicable for cement used in RMC also.  All 

these documents shall be obtained by contractor from the RMC manufacturer and shall be submitted to 
the Department in original / CTC duly signed by the RMC manufacturer. 

4.9.15.2. All other requirements as specified in Clauses 4.8.5 to 4.8.8 hereinbefore shall be applicable in this case 

also. 

4.9.15.3. Details of the admixture used for the RMC viz., Name of manufacturer, Brand Name of Admixture, 

Quantity, Paid Voucher and Test Certificate shall be obtained by the contractor from RMC manufacturer 
and the same shall be submitted to Engineer-in-Charge.  Engineer-in-Charge will keep the same on 
record duly defaced.  Total quantity of admixture used shall be entered in MB as “Not to be abstracted”. 

4.9.15.4. The contractor should enter into an agreement with the approved RMC manufacturer to ensure 

compliance of the above aspects. 

4.10. 
FINISH TO CONCRETE SURFACES  

4.10.1. 
Refer Clause 4.11.16.1, 4.11.16.2 [b], [c], [d], [e], 4.11.16.3 of MES Schedule Part – I. Exposed 
surfaces of PCC / RCC such as soffits of floor / roof slabs, roof beams, independent columns, fins, 
chajjas and stair case, etc which are ultimately required to be treated by application of white 
washing/colour washing, distempering, exterior weather proof paint/cement paint etc shall be plastered 
in CM [1:3], 5mm thick, finished fair and even without using extra cement all as specified. 

4.10.2. 
Exposed surfaces of lintels, beams, columns, etc which are continuous with plastered surfaces of walls 
shall be plastered as for wall plastering specified hereinafter. 

4.11. 
PRE CAST CONCRETE ARTICLES:   Cement concrete lintels [without chajjas] up to 1.5 meters clear 
span, shelves and bed blocks and the like may be either pre-cast or cast -in-situ as indicated in 
Schedule “A” or as directed.  If, it is pre-cast, these shall be set in cement mortar [1:3]. In case of 
deviation involving these items, pricing shall be done on the basis of cast-in-situ work. 

4.12. 
CONCRETE PADDING:  Padding under bearing of RCC lintels, beams, slabs, shelves etc. to make up 
height, shall be of plain cement concrete [1:3:6], Type C1.  Cut brick of less than the height of normal 
brick course shall not be used in such positions. 

4.13. 
BEARING OF RCC WORKS:  Bearing surfaces of masonry walls on which beams, slabs and lintels will 
rest shall be plastered in cement mortar 1:4, 20mm thick.  Top surfaces to be made smooth over which 
bituminised building craft papers conforming to IS-5134 two layers are to be placed.  Similar treatment 
is to be given for all other wall surfaces in contact with beams, slabs and lintels etc bearing plaster with 
bituminous builder craft paper shall also be laid for bearing of shelves No bearing plaster shall be done 
under lintel bands running on walls. Weight of craft paper shall not be less than 100 grams per Sq.m. 

4.14. 
PCC PLINTH PROTECTION:  Plinth protection shall be 75mm thick in PCC 1:3:6 type C-1 using 20mm 
graded stone aggregate over 75mm thick hard core gauge not exceeding 63 mm, over rammed earth 
as shown on drawings. The top surface of concrete shall be finished fair and even without using extra 
cement. Plinth protection will be laid in outward slope of 1 in 12 and in alternate bays/panels. Length of 
panels shall not exceed 2.50m. The joints shall be filled with mastic filling comprising of 01 Part of 
heated bitumen blown grade any penetration and 3 parts of sand [all by weight]. 

 

 

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 245 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.15.         PILE FOUNDATION AND PILE CAPS:  

4.15.1 
Pile foundation shall be provided all as per details shown in drawings [Read in conjunction with Notes 
mentioned in the drawings] and to the specifications mentioned hereinafter. The tenderer has to quote 
unit rates for drilling or boring through the strata mentioned in Schedule “A” up to required depth and 
disposal of spoil mixed with Bentonite slurry. 

4.15.2 
The disposal of spoil shall be done to a distance exceeding 1km but not exceeding 1.5km as directed by 
the Engineer-in-Charge, without any extra cost to Department. GE’s decision regarding the type of 
strata shall be final and binding.  Actual level at which pile is to be founded / rested shall be as ordered 
by GE in writing. 

4.15.3 
The contractor shall cater for use of Bailer, Drill and/or chisels etc or any other method to bore / drill 
through any type of strata. 

4.15.4 
The bore hole drilled shall be thoroughly cleaned before positioning of reinforcement cage. 

4.15.5      GUIDE RING:  The steel guide ring of internal diameter equal to the diameter of the pile plus a 

clearance of a minimum of 25mm and a maximum of 50mm shall be provided to facilitate the smooth 
functioning of bail or chisel etc. The wall of the guide ring shall be absolutely vertical and shall be 
concentric with the pile centre. The guide ring shall be at least one meter deep. The necessary steel 
required for this shall be arranged by the contractor. 

4.15.6. 
BENTONITE SLURRY:  

4.15.6.1 A fresh water mixed with Bentonite slurry [Sodium Montomoreillinite Slurry] shall be used for 

supporting the sides of the bore. The properties of Bentonite shall be maintained as given below: 

[a] 
The density of freshly prepared bentonite shall be 1.034 to 1.10 Grams / ml whereas density of 
slurry mixed with deleterious compound in borehole shall be taken as 1.25 Grams / ml. 

[b] 
The Marsh Cone viscosity when tested by Marsh Cone shall be between 30 to 60 seconds. 

[c] 
The differential free swell shall be more than 540 percent. 

[d] 
The PH value shall be between 9 to 11.5.     

4.15.6.2 Routine field tests of slurry viscosity using marsh funnel shall be carried out and this slurry reclassified. 

The contractor shall ensure to keep the slurry level in the bore as high and constant as possible to 
avoid damaging surges, produced by the action of clues, loss of slurry in soil and other causes.  The 
slurry has as tendency to loose viscosity, get settled and increase the density resulting in insufficient 
and establishing properties. The contractor shall ensure filtration and a high immediate yield value of 
slurry. 

4.15.6.3 Bentonite constant of 16 KG/Cu.m gives sufficient thick slurry and shall be maintained throughout the 

boring operation. Base exchanged Bentonite concentration shall be maintained between 4 to 7 by 
weight. 

4.15.6.4 After penetration of clay strata and on entry more permeable strata the artesian water head present at 

site shall be suitable countered by use of increased slurry head and density. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 246 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.15.6.5 The said content in the Bentonite powder shall not be more than seven percent [7%]. Testing of the 

slurry at the base of the trench shall be carried out by special samplers or by using samples obtained 
viz. the submersible pumps. Sand content shall be measured by screening the slurry on a 200 mesh 
sieves [Micron] deep. Sampling shall be carried out every time before placement of the reinforcement 
cage.  Reuse of the slurry in a second and subsequent bore shall be permitted only after carrying out 
the necessary Marsh funnel, PH Value and Density tests.  Generally, the slurry immediately above the 
rising concrete shall be diverted to disposal pits rather than treating the same. Additives up to a limit of 
0.5% by weight of the slurry are permitted.  The contractor shall ensure adoption of suitable bentonite 
clay mixer, lump breakers, fillers and centrifugal pumps for circulation etc.  He shall ensure a clean 
layout using proper capacity mixing tanks, re-circulation tanks, disposal pits, circulation trenches and 
pipe lines, suitable lined tanks shall be used to avoid break down due to side wall collapses. While 
drawing out the used and stored slurry, the slurry from the top only shall be drawn and the pits cleared 
to remove the settled solids. 

4.15.7 
BORING OF PILES:  

4.15.7.1 Borehole data shall be as specified in Schedule "A", as shown on drawing and as directed at site. Boring 

shall be carried out through any type of strata up to a depth as indicated in drawing and spit to be 
disposed to a distance exceeding 1.50 Km and not exceeding 5.00 Km as directed by the Engineer-in-
Charge. The ground shall be roughly leveled and the position of the piles marked and bore shall be 
made by any suitable boring tool. After the bore is made to the required depth, enlarging of the bore 
shall be carried out by means of an under-reaming tool 2 to 2.5 times of the dia meter of the bore 
where specified and directed. In, ground with high water table and having unstable pile bores, boring 
shall be carried out using a suitable drilling fluids as directed by Engineer-in-Charge. 

4.15.7.2 For boring normal spiral as modified augers and under reamed tool having arrangement to avoid back 

suction shall be used, where the drilling fluids is used the holes shall be cleaned of all soil cuttings 
before concreting.  

4.15.7.3  CAST-IN-SITU-BORED PILES:  Cast-in-situ bored piles shall be cast to dimensions and depths shown 

in drawings. Tenderer shall specifically inform the GE in writing before commencement of piling work, 
the method to be proposed to adopt and submit along with the weight and drop of hammer/chisel, 
number of drop per minute, weight of boring or as directed conforming to the general requirement 
mentioned in these documents. The load per running metre & HP of motor etc. are also to be 
mentioned. 

4.15.8 
CONCRETE: 

4.15.8.1  CONTROLLED CONCRETE:  Controlled concrete shall be Design Mix M40 Grade concrete [using 20mm 

graded stone aggregate] as specified in IS – 456. The minimum requirement of cement for controlled 
concrete shall be  400 kg per cum for piles and pile caps.   The actual quantity of cement for 
controlled concrete of grade M40 shall be ascertained by the tenderer as per Design Mix as specified 
hereinbefore vide Clause No. 4.8.4 & 4.8.5. No claim whatsoever arising due to any excess cement 
[over minimum requirement as per IS] incorporated in the work as per design mix shall be admissible.  
Contractor while quoting shall take into account the actual requirement of cement.  The design mix for 
piles shall be got done by the contractor from any of the Institutes / Labs as specified in Clause No. 
4.8.3.3 herein before separately and shall be got approved from GE in writing. However, for pile caps, 
the design mix of super structure controlled concrete shall be adopted. The slump for piles shall be 150 
mm to 180 mm.  All other aspects in respect of controlled concrete shall be all as specified hereinbefore 
vide Clause No. 4.8.3, 4.8.4, 4.8.5, 4.8.6, 4.8.7 & 4.8.8 as applicable for piles. 

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 247 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.15.9 
PLACING AND COMPACTING OF CONTROLLED CONCRETE:  

4.15.9.1 The bottom of the bore holes shall be cleaned off al the spoils and sediments before placing concrete so 

that the bases of piles shall be free from loose materials, concreting of bore holes shall commence as 
soon as possible after cleaning.  A bore hole which is not cased be left un-concreted for more than 2 
hours. It shall be cleaned thoroughly before placing concrete.  Concreting under water shall preferably 
be done in one operation.  Adequate standby plant shall be catered for this purpose. 

4.15.9.2 Concrete shall be preferably placed by a tremie pipe. ½ Kg of granulated vermiculite shall be used in 

tremie pipe before poring initial concrete to ensure that concrete does not get mixed with slurry. The 
tremie pipe shall extend up to the bottom of the bore hole at the start and may be withdrawn in section 
as level of the concrete rises in the bore hole at the start, but its discharge end shall at all times be 
embedded in the concrete to a minimum depth of one metre. Placing of concrete shall be continuous 
and the tremie pipe shall be held concentric in the hole.  In the case of concreting inside casing which 
is subsequently withdrawn the concrete shall be placed in sufficient quantity to ensure that during 
withdrawal of casing a sufficient head of concrete is maintained to prevent the inflow of soil and water.  
Sufficient care shall also be exercised in extracting the casing such that the freshly placed concrete is 
not lifted up-along with casing in which case, the entire concrete including the reinforcement shall be 
taken off, the pile shall be thoroughly of casing pile: Extraction of casing shall be done in such a way 
that no necking or shearing of the concrete in the shaft takes places.  During the extraction of the 
casing, slump of concrete shall be observed and when required, additional quantity of concrete shall be 
placed up to the original ground level as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge so that the pile is formed 
up at least 100 cm above the cut off level.      

4.15.9.3 Payment for concrete in piles will be made from founding level to cutoff level only, based on quantity 

theoretically arrived by multiplying cross sectional area of pile and length of pile between cut off level 
and founding level. The contractor shall have no claim what so ever on this account. The contractor 
shall consider this aspect while quoting the tender.  

4.15.10 
REINFORCEMENT BAR BENDING SCHEDULE:  The contractor shall submit to the GE for scrutiny 
and approval, detailed reinforcement bar bending schedule, four weeks in advance of due date of 
commencement of any particular item of concrete work, while working out the reinforcement bar 
bending schedule the contractor shall ascertain from the Garrison Engineer the length of bars likely to 
be made available and this schedule shall be soon made keeping the wastage/off cuts of bars to bare 
minimum without hampering technical requirement. The fabrication of reinforcement of concrete works 
shall be commenced only after bar-bending schedule is approved in writing by the Garrison Engineer / 
Engineer–in–Charge. 

4.15.11 
REINFORCEMENT:  High strength deformed TMT (CRS) bars of  Grade Fe-500D  shall be procured by 
the tenderer and shall be as specified hereinafter. The reinforcement shall be properly tied and fixed to 
prevent any displacement and distortion while concreting is in progress. Clear cover shall be as shown 
on drawings to reinforcement including binders/helical. The reinforcement of piles shall be extended to 
the length shown on drawings as dowel bars from cut off level.   

4.15.12 
FINISH OF PILES:  Controlled concrete in piles shall be cast to piling platform level to permit overflow 
of concrete for visual inspection.  Concrete may be placed up to the original ground level as directed by 
the Engineer-in-Charge or to a minimum height of one metre above cut off level to permit removal of all 
laitance and weak concrete before capping.  This shall not be measured for payment made for laitance 
concrete.  

  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 248 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.15.13 
RECORDS:  The contractor shall maintain careful and comprehensive record, during the driving of piles, 
showing the following and necessary data in a tabular form in respect of each pile: 

[a] 
Serial Number [with reference to plan] of the pile. 

[b] 
Date on which the pile is cast and the quantity of concreting carried out in each day. 

[c] 
Total depth of pile 

[d] 
Strata Chart. 

Two copies of the above records shall be signed by the contractor and the Engineer-in-Charge, and 
submitted to the department. 

4.15.14 
PERMISSIBLE DISPLACEMENT:  The permissible displacement for any pile form their designed 
position shall not be greater than the following: 

[a] 
Pile group with pile dia not exceeding 600mm  
: 
75 mm or D/4 whichever is less. 

4.15.15 
TESTING OF PILES:  

4.15.15.1 The initial and routine load test of piles shall be carried out all as specified in Appendix “A” to IS – 2911 

[Part – IV] on pile(s) selected / approved by the Garrison Engineer for testing. The test loads for 
routine load test shall be one and half times of the design load or a higher load as directed the Garrison 
Engineer. The loads for various piles shall be taken as described on drawings. All requirements such as 
loads set of dial gauges and all other appliances shall be provided at site by the contractor and the 
quoted rates for test shall be deemed to include for all the aforesaid provisions. 

4.15.15.2 The initial and routine pile load tests shall be carried out in accordance with IS – 2911. Minimum initial 

load test and routine test will be carried out 2% minimum and rounded off to the next higher round 
figure.  In case failure of initial load test, the matter will be reported to Accepting Officer.  In case of 
fault on the part of contractor no payment shall be made to the contractor for rejected pile. Decision of 
Accepting Officer is final and binding. 

4.15.15.3  REPLACEMENT OF DEFECTIVE PILES:  The piles that are found defective shall be pulled out or left 

in places as directed by the Garrison Engineer without affecting the performance of the adjacent piles.  
As a result of redesign all additional work required to compensate for the defective piles, whether pulled 
out or left in position will be provided by the contractor at his own expenses as directed by the Garrison 
Engineer.  Payment for the defective pile will not be made. Payment for provision of new pile as per re-
design will however be made. 

4.15.15.4  CONTROL OF ALIGNMENT:  The pile shall be bored and under-reamed where specified as accurately 

as possible vertical or to the specified depth.  As a general guide the permissible positional deviation 
shall not be greater than 75 mm or D/4 whichever is less at the level of bottom of pile cap and shall not 
exceed 2 percent [about 1% from the specified inclination] [“D” is diameter of the item].  Where the 
deviation in the alignment of the barrels more than that specified, corrective measure as approved shall 
be taken at the contractor’s cost in the form of increasing pile size.  Provision of extra reinforcement to 
the pile etc work shall be carried out in precision manner as per latest IS provisions. 

4.15.16 
MS LINER:    Permanent mild steel liners shall be provided as per approved design and  shall be 

procured by the tenderer and shall be as specified hereinafter .  MS liner fabricated out of plain MS plate 
confirming to Fe-410-WB (Gde E-250 Quality B/BR), including rolling to required diameter welding the 
joints, strengthening wherever required, providing stiffeners, lifting hooks, including all T & P required.  

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 249 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
4.16 
CONCRETING FOR SWIMMING POOL: -  Loose pockets of soil if encountered shall be completely 
removed and back filled with compacted moorum. Nominal cover to reinforcement in swimming pool shall 
be as under:- (a) RCC Base slab & walls of pool  - 50mm (b)  Roof slabs - 30 mm (c)  Beams  - 45mm           
(d)  Columns  
 - 45 mm (e)  Footings    - 50 mm 

 
4.16.1 Suitable de-watering system be provided during execution so that foundation concrete shall be placed in 

dry condition. Dewatering shall continue till sufficient dead load is attained to counter uplift water 
pressure. 

 
4.16.2 The concreting of base slab/side wall start from the deeper portion of swimming pool and proceed 

towards shall over portion. 

 
4.16.3 The concreting of base slab/side wall shall be carried out in panels with vertical/horizontal construction 

joints as indicated in the drawing. 

 
4.16.4 When the base slab panels are cast the side stretches standing over them also shall be cast along with 

the base slab in one operation up to a minimum height of 400 mm above the top of base slab with 
horizontal constructions joint provided in as shown in details. 

 
4.16.5 The concreting beyond the construction joint vertical & horizontal shall be continued preferably with 12 

hours of forming the construction joint to avoid deferential shrinkage at inner face.  In order to ensure 
the proper bond between old and mew concrete surface, bonding chemical shall be used. 

 
4.16.6   Concreting for Balancing chamber  :- 

 
  
(a)  The entire RCC base slab along the side wall up to height of 400 mm (Min) shall be cast in one 
continuous operation i.e. there will be no vertical construction joints in base slab.  The number of horizontal 
construction joints inside wall shall not exceed 2 each horizontal construction joints in side walls shall be at 
one horizontal level there shall be no vertical construction joints in side wall. 

 

(b)    The rate of filling of water in swimming pool and balancing tank shall be at 300 mm depth per day and 
the testing of pool and tank for water tightness shall be as per IS-6494. 

 
4.16.7  Construction Joints: - 

(a)   When the concreting is stopped for the day it shall be terminated at the construction joints.   

 
(b)     The joints shall be horizontal. 

 
(c)   The surface film of the first placed concrete should preferably be removed whilst the concrete is still 

green to expose the aggregate and leave a sound irregular surface. This may be effected by 
spraying with water or air and water assisted by the light brushing where necessary.  

 
(d)    Before starting the concrete works over this surface shall be treated with water resistant rubberized  

(EPOXY) bonding agent. Over this 50 mm the concrete with 8 mm down aggregate shall be poured 
and further concreting continued.  Epoxy bonding chemical shall be of food grade. 

 
(e)    No of horizontal construction joints in side wall shall not more than as given under: - 

Swimming pool  - 01 No,  
Diving pool  
- 02 Nos (Deeper portion in swimming pool),  
Balancing tank  - 02 Nos  (as applicable) 
5. 
FINISHING CONCRETE BY VACCCUM DEWATERING METHOD FOR SWIMMING POOL  Vacuum 
dewatering method will be used to remove excess water from the laid concrete and filter pad and suction 
mat shall be laid on the freshly laid concrete which will not allow cement paste to flow out, and the 
suction pump are then started immediately to remove the excess water. The suction time normally is 20 
to 30 minutes. This vacuum process will enable to remove 15 to 25% of water content making the 
surface hard enough to enable to carry the floating operation. The top surface after removal of mat shall 
be floated with a mechanical skim floater with trowelling blade to enable the top surface to grind and give 
a uniform water resistance surface on top. Under no circumstances neat cement be sprinkled directly on 
concrete surface to absorb bleed water as surface scaling may occur later. Similarly water should not be 
applied between trowelling operations as it may cause surface weakness. Minimum two passes shall be 
carried out. The surface shall then be watered and cured as per clause 13.32.10 of SSR part -I. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 250 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
6.0 
PRECAST CEMENT CONCRETE SOLID/HOLLOW BLOCK MASONRY:  

6.1 
Irrespective of what is shown on drawings for Sch ’A’ Part -I Buildings, all buildings shall 
be with precast concrete block masonry. External panel walls in framed construction shall 
be PCC solid block of grade ‘D’.  All other walls shall be with PCC Hollow Block masonry of 
grade ‘A’ . In case of load bearing constructions, all walls shall be built in PCC solid blocks.  However, 
for framed construction, panel walls, other than external panel walls, the first course of wall above 
plinth beam/plinth band and one course below all RCC works like lintel/floor beam/floor slab/roof 
beam/roof slab and roof band etc shall be with precast PCC solid block and the balance PCC block 
masonry walls in that panel wall shall be built with precast PCC Hollow Blocks. 

6.2 
PRECAST CEMENT CONCRETE BLOCK: The size of the concrete block solid and Hollow shall be 400 X 
200 X 200mm and `400 X 200 x 100 respectively.  The size if block for 300mm thick wall shall be 400 X 
300 X 200 mm.  The blocks will be machine moulded with mix prepared in a mechanical mixer and 
manufactured as per IS: 2185 (Part –I) 1979.  The class grade and density shall be as under:-  

Type of Block 
Minimum average compressive 
strength at 28 days 

Classification 
Block Density 

Hollow Block 
45 Kg/Cm2 
Grade ‘A’ 
Not less than 1500 kg/m3 

Solid Block 
50 Kg/Cm2 
Grade ‘D’ 
Not less than 1800 kg/m3 

 
The physical requirements viz dimensions, density, compressive strength, water Absorption, Drying 
shrinkage and Moisture movement of the block shall conform to IS: 2185 (Part I) 1979. 

6.2.1 
The crushed stone aggregates of nominal size 12.5mm graded and conforming to the requirements of 
`IS:383 -1970 shall be used.  The grading of the combined aggregate (ie fine and coarse) shall conform 
as near as possible to the requirements indicated in IS:383 -1970.  It is also recommended that the 
fineness modulus of the combined aggregate shall be between 3.6 and 4.0.  The mix proportions of the 
concrete used in manufacture of the blocks shall be 1:3:6 in case higher quantity of cement and lower 
proportion of aggregates in required to achieve the specified strength and compliance to the IS:2185 
(Part I) 1979, the same shall be provided without any additional cost. Sampling and Testing shall be as 
per IS: 2185 (Part –I) 1979.  A sample of 20 block shall be taken from every consignment of 5000 blocks 
or part thereof of the same size and same batch of manufacture.  All the 20 blocks shall be checked for 
dimensions and inspected for visual defects.  The other tests shall be as under:- 

 
 (a) Block density 
 
 
 
 
- 3 Blocks 

 
(b)   Compressive strength 
 
 
 
- 8 Blocks 

 
(c) 
Water absorption 
 
 
 
-  3 Blocks 

 
(d) 
Drying shrinkage and lateral to  
 
- 3 Blocks 

 
 
Moisture movement 

 
(e) 
Reserve for retest for drying shrinkage and  
-  3 Blocks 
 

 
 
moisture movement if need arises. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 251 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
6.2.2 
The criteria for conformity of the lot shall be as specified in IS:2185 (Part I) 1979.  The cost of PCC 
blocks for testing and testing charges shall be borne by the contractor. The manufacturer of PCC blocks 
shall issue a certificate that these masonry units conform to the requirement of IS : 2185 Part I 1979.  
The blocks shall also bear the identification for the manufacturer and the grade of the unit supplied. 

6.3 
Unless otherwise specified here-in-after precast cement concrete block masonry shall be built in CM 1:6 
for 200mm thick and 300 mm thick wall and CM 1:4 for 100mm thick wall. 

6.4 
Precast PCC masonry wall of 100mm thick shall be constructed over PCC sub base in ground floor and 
from top of RCC slab in upper floors in case of concealed beam/beam not shown on drawings.  PCC 
masonry wall 100mm thick having height more than 1.5m shall be reinforced with two 8mm dia MS 
bars horizontally at every forth course starting from floor level and anchored in walls at junctions.  The 
anchorage length shall be not less than 100mm. Unless otherwise shown be provided with depth 
150mm at lintel or opening height level with 4 Nos of 10mm dia deformed bars as longitudinal 
reinforcement and 8mm dia deformed bar stirrups at 100mm centre to centre. 

6.5 
In the event of deviation precast PCC block masonry shall be priced at the applicable rates in MES 
schedule (Part II) for materials and labour with contractor’s percentage as applicable irrespective of size 
aggregate specified. 

6.6 
The particular of sources/manufacturers of PCC solid/Hollow block shall be approved by GE. However 
the same can be manufactured at site confirmed to the requirement all as specified hereinbefore.  

6.7. 
Width of concrete lintels, beams, cills, columns and the like coming in conjunction with block masonry 
walls/pillars shall be kept to the actual width of masonry work of that place unless offsets have been 
specifically shown; in which case, the width as shown on drawings shall be maintained. 

6.8 
Center line dimensions of rooms, verandahs etc., shown in drawings shall be maintained.  Internal and 
overall dimensions, if at variance from whatever shown in drawings, shall be deemed to have been 
amended accordingly.  The dimensions for various height shall be maintained as shown on the 
drawings. 

6.9 
WATER PROOFING COMPOUND:  Water proofing compound shall be anti-algae conforming to IS – 
2645, Specifications for integral cement water proofing compound. The quantity of water proofing 
compound shall be as recommended by the manufacturer. However, in the event of deviations the 
quantity of water proofing compound shall be considered @ 3% by weight of cement.   

7.        
FORM WORK : 

7.1 
   Form work shall be of  steel plates stiffened by steel angles .  

7.2.  
Propping and centering shall be of steel sections, tubular sections or combinations, properly designed.  
Contractor may use “AGRO” or other equivalent and approved propping and centering methods 
precautions like supporting minimum two floors below and locating props exactly below one another 
shall be strictly adhered to.  [MES Schedule Part I, clause 7.15.3 to 7.15.4.2 refers] 

7.3.  
Form surfaces shall be coated with soap solution or linseed oil or refined pale paraffin mineral oil.  Use 
of waste engine oil etc shall not be permitted. [MES Schedule Part I clause 7.15.6 refers] 

7.4. 
In all other respects like lining to shuttering, obtaining desired shape to edges, camber, erection and 
assembly, striking and removal, reuse etc, specifications, in all sub clauses of clause 7.15 of MES 
Schedule Part I and all sub clauses of clause 4.11.6 of MES Schedule Part I shall be applicable. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 252 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
7.5.  
In case of any deviation involving form work, to surface exposed to view, the pricing shall be done at 
the rates of timber form work, for fair finish and in case unexposed concrete surface the pricing shall be 
done at the rates of timber form work for rough finish subject to contractor’s percentage for relevant 
Parts of the Schedule ‘A’ 

8.    
WOOD WORK AND JOINERY    

 8.1  
TIMBER  

 8.1.1  
Timber for all joinery and wood work shall conform to specifications given in clause 7.3 of the MES 
Schedule and shall be within the permissible limits of defects defined in clauses 7.4 and 7.5 of the MES 
Schedule Part-I.  

 8.1.2 
Timber shall be well seasoned, whether air or kiln dried at the discretion of the Contractor but without 
any price adjustments. The moisture content of timber shall not exceed the limits laid down vide clause 
7.7 of the MES Schedule. Adequate number of tests shall be carried out by the Engineer-in-charge to 
determine the moisture content in the timber to be used in the work and the Contractor shall provide 
necessary facilities for test as required by the Engineer-in-charge without any extra cost to 
Government. Testing charges shall also be deemed to be included in lump sum quoted by the 
Contractor for Schedule-„A‟ Part-I  

8.2      PRESERVATION OF TIMBER  

  
(a) Preservative anti-termite treatment shall be carried out to all wood work and joinery fabricated by 
the Contractor at site. Factory made ply/boards are deemed to be provided with anti-termite treatment.  

 (b)Chemical used for anti-termite treatment to wood work and joinery shall be copper NAPTHANATE, 

ASCU or any other chemical specified in IS-401, applied in any one of the manners specified in ibid IS.  

 (c) The species of timber for joinery/furniture items fabricated at site and prefabricated wood products 

i.e. particle board, etc. shall be as specified hereunder:  

 (i) Fully panelled or partly paneled / glazed/wire gauzed shutters Factory made shutters with styles/rails 

of Second class hard wood as per IS-1003 (Part-I) of species LAUREL/ BIJASAL/BENTEAK/VENTEAK/ 
SAL, to be obtained from list of approved manufacturers given in Appendix-B'(FSC/PFSC Certified Chain 
of custody Certified products. Make: Greenply/ Archidply/ equivalent)  

(ii) Frames of built-in cupboards / cabinets and furniture items, if indicated of timber Second class Hard 

wood (Sal)(FSC/PFSC Certified Chain of custody Certified products. Make: Greenply/ Archidply/ 
equivalent)  

(iii) Wooden pelmets:    Pelmets of particle boards shall be provided as specified hereinafter.  

(iv) Edging/beading for particle/ block/ medium density fiber board exposed to view in shutters, shelves 

and tops of built-in furniture, cupboards and cabinets Teak/Shishamwood. (FSC/PFSC Certified Chain of 
custody Certified products. Make: Greenply/ Archidply/ equivalent) 

(v) Gutties plugs cleats / stoppers, beading and fillets for shutters and frames Second class hardwood 

(Sal/Kalasiris/Chaplash/ Hollock)  

(vi) All other woodwork and joinery not otherwise specified Second class hardwood (Sal/ 

Kalasiris/Chaplash/ Hollock). (vii)  Door frames Second class hardwood (Sal)  

  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 253 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
8.3     FACTORY MADE PANELLED DOOR SHUTTERS: 

 (a) Panelled door shutters and glazed / gauged shutters shall be factory made shutters conforming to IS-

1003 (Part-I).  Styles and rails shall be kiln seasoned and chemically treated by pressure process as per 
para 5.5 of IS-401 (under vacuum pressure).  The dimensions and overall sizes shall however be as 
shown on drawings.  

 (b) The thickness of door shutters shall be as shown on drawings and if not shown on drawings, the 

same shall be 35mm.  

  
(c) Panelled shutter shall be provided with suitable size wooden beading all round the panel insert on 
both the sides of the shutter.  

 8.4       FACTORY MADE SKELETON SHUTTER FOR MOSQUITO PROOF DOORS: 

 (a)  
Mosquito proof shutters where indicated on drawings shall be of factory-made skeleton shutters 
conforming to IS-1003 (Part-I) with second class hard wood styles and rails of species specified here-in-
before and wire gauze as shown on drawings. The dimension and overall size shall however be as 
shown on drawings.  

 (b) Timber shall be of kiln seasoned and chemically treated by pressure process as specified in para 5.5 

of IS-401 (under vacuum pressure).  

 (c) Other treatments to timber surfaces such as tarring, painting etc. shall be carried out in addition.  

 8.5  
Factory made panelled / skeleton shutters shall be obtained from any one of the manufacturer‟s 
inspection and approval.  Sample shutters shall be got approved from the GE before placing bulk order.  

8.6  
Factory made panelled / skeleton shutters may be obtained from any other manufacturer, provided the 
same fulfill the following requirements:  

 (a) Shall conform to the specification given above. (b)Standard and quality are equal or superior to that 

of the products mentioned above. (c)Is approved by the GE in writing before incorporation in the work.  

8.7  
Factory made shutters shall be brought to site before applying the primer and the shutters shall be got 
passed by the Engineer-in-charge before application of the primer.  

8.8  
PLYWOOD: All plywood where indicated on drawings shall be 18/19mm thick marine ply with 1.2mm 
thick laminate (as approved) on both sides   

 8.9 WORKMANSHIP:  

  
(a) Joinery shall be wrought all over. Timber surface exposed to view shall be wrought and for surface 
not exposed to view shall be clean sawn.  The workmanship and fixing of joinery shall be as per 
Clauses 8.11 to 8.24 of MES Schedule.  

  
(b) The dimensions of the various components of joinery (other than block board shutters) shown on 
drawings, wherever at variance, shall supersede the standard dimensions mentioned in the MES 
Schedule. However, for pricing deviations involving any joinery work, the rates in the MES Schedule for 
the corresponding joinery shall be applicable.  

  (c) Unless otherwise specified, all work both carpenter's and joineries shall have full dimension shown 

on drawings except that an allowance of 1.5mm shall be allowed for each wrought face.  Wooden 
beads and fillets shall however, hold the full dimensions as shown on drawings. The Contractor shall 
also maintain the overall sizes of the doors and windows, etc. as shown on drawings.  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 254 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

 (d)Timber member‟s upto 3m length shall be in one piece.    

 (e) Plugging to walls shall be done with wooden plugs as per clause 7.29 of the MES Schedule and 

specified hereinbefore.   

 (f) 2mm thick PVC sheet to a height 200mm shall be provided to both sides and also at bottom edge of 

all door shutters of kitchen, unless other material is indicated on drawings.  

  
(g) Vertical members of wooden doorframes shall be embedded 40mm deep below FFL. All door 
shutters shall have 2 to 3mm clearances above FFL.    

8.10   
FLUSH DOOR SHUTTER :  Unless otherwise specified on drawings flush door shutter shall be 35mm 
thick with both side laminated, solid core, factory made shutter made as per IS: 2202 (Part-I-1999) and 
shall be ISI marked. Styles and rails shall be without any joint and be made of non-coniferous timber 
hard wood (Hollock / Mirantee / Bonsum/ Ben Teak) with moisture contents not more than 12% and 
dimension as given in IS code. The face panel comprising of plywood or cross band and face veneers 
shall be glued by hot pressed process. Over all finished thickness of face panel shall not be less than 
3mm while the thickness of face veneer shall not be less than 0.6mm. Block board core shall fully 
confirm to the requirement specified in the IS code. All timber used shall be well seasoned and 
chemically treated. Adhesive shall be phenol formaldehyde synthetic resin BWP type specified in IS: 
848- 2006. All dimensions shall be finished dimension & manufactures test certificate for test specified 
in IS: 2202 (Part I) shall be rendered.   

 8.10.1 
The Contractor shall submit machine numbered paid vouchers from the authorized dealer/ 
manufacturer for the total quantity of the flush door shutters supplied under each consignment. At the 
time of delivery of flush doors at site, delivery challan alongwith invoices shall be submitted by the 
Contractor to the GE. Each consignment received at the site shall be inspected by the GE. The original 
invoice shall be defaced by the GE and kept on record at the site office. Colour shall be as approved by 
GE.  

8.10.2  The Excise duty paid gate pass shall be submitted by the Contractor to the GE for each consignment of 

flush door shutter dispatched by the factory holding valid BIS certification and brought at site for 
incorporation in the work.  

 8.10.3 
On receipt of the shutters at site, the samples of door shutters shall be tested in any approved 
laboratory as instructed by the GE. From each lot of approximately 700 shutters, one shutter shall be 
selected at random by the GE. The cost of the door shutters selected as samples, their transportation to 
the laboratory and the cost of testing by the laboratory shall be borne by the Contractor and shall be 
deemed to be included in the lump sum rates quoted in Schedule-‟A‟ Section-I. Flush doors to be 
provided with teakwood beading as per drawings and painted to match the door shutter. Bottom of the 
flush door be painted with two coats of synthetic enameled paint before fixing. Flush door shutters to 
be provided as per drawings, shall be with teak wood beading 6mm thick all round.  

 8.11 PERFORATED PARTICLE BOARD FOR ACOUSTIC PURPOSES  

 (a)  The perforated particle board tiles shall conform to IS: 3129-1985 and shall be of 12mm thick unless 

otherwise indicated on drawings. Fixing and workmanship shall be as detailed on drawings, as specified 
in MES clause 12.4 of SSR Part-I and as directed by the Engineer-inCharge.  

 (b)   The tiles shall be placed over the grid frame work and held in position using standard spring aluminium 

clips. Each edge of the tile shall be clamped at least at one point. The tiles shall be painted with one 
coat of oil bound distemper of specified shade before being fixed in the aluminium grid frame work and 
the finishing second coat after erection.  

 (c) 
The cleats shall be finished with a coat of red oxide primer and 2 coats of synthetic enamel paint all as 
specified here in after before fixing.  

  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 255 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
8.12 FRP DOORS:  

 (a)  FRP door shutters and frames shall be provided at locations as shown on drawings 

 (b)  FRP doors shall be of make as specified here in after.  

 (c)  The thickness of FRP shutters & thickness of FRP shall be as shown on drawings. Shutters shall be in 

depressed panel and of design and colour as approved by the GE and shall be consisting of extra 
reinforcement on edges. The core of shutter in styles and rails area shall be of polyurethane foam. The 
panel area shall have ply-FRP sandwich construction having 4mmthick ply to have embedded wooden 
blocks for taking fixtures. Shutter shall have recesses to take hinge to fix wooden frame. The whole 
shutter shall be resistant to mild acid /alkali. Aluminium iron mongery to FRP shutter shall be fixed as 
per manufacturer‟s instructions.  

8.13   POWDER COATED ALUMINIUM ANODISED WINDOWS / DOORS AND VENTILATORS/PARTITION: Powder 
coated aluminium anodised doors / windows / ventilators including grills shall generally confirm to clause 10.37 of 
MES Schedule Part I and shall be provided at locations and as per the details shown on drawings. Powder coated 
aluminium anodised doors/windows/ventilators shall be made out of extruded aluminium anodised sections. 
Powder coating shall not be less than 50micron thick. Sections of Aluminium doors / windows / ventilators shall be 
obtained from any of the firm as listed in here in after. Glazing of aluminium doors / windows / ventilators shall be 
with sheet glass ordinary quality conforming to IS: 2835-1977 and thickness of sheet glass irrespective of 
whatever mentioned in drawing shall be 5.50mm. Glazing for WC/ toilet shall be figured glass conforming to IS-
5437, 1969 and thickness shall be 4mm. Glazing for all the external doors and windows shall be 5.5mm thick 
toughened glass or higher thickness if shown in drawing. All fittings to aluminium doors / windows / ventilators 
shall be as per the manufacturer‟s instructions.  

8.13.1 Where shown in the drawings, Aluminium anodised windows and ventilators shall be provided with 
Aluminium anodised grills all as shown on drawings. The Contractor may procure the aluminium anodised sections 
from the other manufactures as given in here in after or equivalent to sections of Jindal Aluminium Company. In 
case the weight of sections is more than that of “Jindal Aluminium Company‟. No extra cost shall be paid on this 
account.  

8.13.2 Where shown on the drawings, aluminium anodised windows and ventilators shall be provided with fly 
proofing shutters of aluminium XPM jalli 24gauge thickness and average 1.40mm width of aperture to be provided 
all as specified/shown in drawing. Aluminium door shall be provided with fly proofing shutters and grills of 
specification have been shown in drawings.  

8.13.3 Where shown in the drawings, Aluminium anodised windows and ventilators shall be provided with 
Aluminium anodised grills of DG 104 (10mm) of make Decogrille or equivalent. All other specifications for these 
aluminium doors/ windows/ ventilators shall be as per the relevant drawings mentioned in the list of drawings.    

  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 256 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
8.14 
uPVC DOOR WITH FRAME: 

 8.14.1 
Wherever shown on drawings uPVC doors shall be provided. uPVC factory made integral leaf (shutter) 
and frames shall be provided wherever shown on drawings. The frame made of uPVC extruded 
sections of size as mentioned on drawings, corners of the door frame shall be jointed with galvanised 
brackets and SS screws, joints mitred and plastic welded. The hinge side vertical of the frame 
reinforced by galvanised MS tube. The shutter made of styles & rails of uPVC sections as shown on 
drawings with inbuilt decorative moulding edge on one side jointed by means of plastic/ galvanised MS 
tubes. The shutter panel shall be factory made with 12mm thick water proof exterior MDF particle 
board panel for flush door / 5mm thick glass for glass door / wiremesh mosquito proof shutter wih 
fibre reinforced mesh. The panel / glass/mesh shall be fitted with EPDM rubber gasket as per 
manufacturer’s instructions. Irrespective of what is shown on drawing frames shall be fixed with 
expandable fasteners or lug plates as per manufacturer’s instructions. All builders’ hardware shall be of 
aluminium except butt hinges, which shall be stain less steel ISI marked.  The uPVC doors shall be 
provided with all builder’s hardware articles. Frames and shutters shall be of colour as approved by 
GE. uPVC doors shall be fixed as per manufacturer’s instructions.   
 
8.15 
uPVC SLIDING WINDOWS / VENTILATORS WITH FRAME: 

 8.15.1 
Wherever shown on drawings uPVC Sliding windows 2/3 track & Ventilators shall be provided. uPVC 
factory made integral leaf (shutter) and frames shall be provided wherever shown on drawings. The 
frame made of uPVC extruded sections of size as mentioned on drawings, corners of the frame shall 
be mitered cut and fusion welded at all corners. The shutter made of styles & rails of uPVC sections as 
shown on drawings with inbuilt decorative moulding edge on one side. The shutter panel shall be 
factory made with uPVC multicavity sections of size as shown on drawings with 5mm thick glass for 
glass door and mosquito proof shutter wih fibre reinforced mesh. The glass/mesh shall be fitted with 
EPDM rubber gasket as per per manufacturer’s instructions.  Irrespective of what is shown on drawing 
frames shall be fixed with expandable fasteners or lug plates as per manufacturer’s instructions. All 
builders’ hardware shall be of aluminium except butt hinges, which shall be stain less steel ISI marked.  
The uPVC doors shall be provided with all builder’s hardware articles. Frames and shutters shall be of 
colour as approved by GE. uPVC doors shall be fixed as per manufacturer’s instructions.   
 
8.15.2 
Where shown in the drawings, Aluminium grill shall be provided with Aluminium anodised grills of DG 
104 (10mm) of make Deco grille or equivalent fixed with aluminium flats & rivets as shown on 
drawings. All other specifications for these aluminium doors/ windows/ ventilators shall be as per the 
relevant drawings mentioned in the list of drawings.    
   

8.15   
PLY WOOD, MARINE PLY WOOD, PARTICLE BOARD & PRE-LAMINATED PARTICLE BOARD: 

[a]  
Un-veneered particle board where indicated shall be flat pressed, BWP grade bonded with 
phenol formaldehyde synthetic resin adhesive conforming to IS-3087 [Type-I Part-I] all as 
specified in Para 12.13 of MES Schedule Part-I. 

[b]  
Veneered particle board where indicated shall be three layered flat pressed with commercial or 
teak veneer [one side or both sides] as indicated on drawing/specified and shall be BWP grade 
bonded with phenol formaldehyde synthetic resin adhesive as per IS-3097 Grade I, Type-I for 
commercial veneer and Type-2 for decorative veneer all as specified in Para 12.14 of MES 
Schedule Part-I. 

[c]  
Plywood/ Marine Ply where indicated shall be BWP grade bonded with phenol formaldehyde 
synthetic resin adhesive and marked with IS -303 for general purpose plywood and IS-1328 
for decorative face plywood.  Facing shall be of teak veneer or commercial veneer as shown 
on drawing/specified. 

[d]  
The pre-laminated particle board in all situations shall be flat pressed three layered exterior 
grade ISI marked [IS-12823] Gde I, type II with pre lamination of approved shade on one side 
and balancing white on other side bonded with phenol formaldehyde synthetic resin adhesive. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 257 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
9. 
BUILDERS HARDWARE:  

9.1  
Provide builders hardware articles for doors/windows/ventilator/cupboards etc all as per details in 
Schedule of fittings shown on drawings. 

9.2  
Unless otherwise specified hereinafter, the articles of builder’s hardware shall be anodized [anodic film 
transparent] aluminium materials except for butt hinges.  The butt hinges shall be of Stainless steel. 
The screws, bolts, nuts to be used for fixing shall be cadmium plated iron screws for anodized 
aluminium articles Helical door springs and GI for MS articles. 

9.3   
All items of builder’s hardware shall bear ISI mark on them and the samples shall be got approved by 
GE before bulk procurement.   Fittings shall be as approved by GE. 

9.4 
STAINLESS STEEL TOWEL RAIL: Provide towel rail at locations shown on drawing. Towel rail shall be of 
19/20mm dia stainless steel tube of wall thickness 1.5mm, 600 mm long as shown on drawing of 
reputed make and of shape shown on drawing. Brackets shall be fixed to wooden plugs embedded in 
wall. 

9.5  
TOWER BOLTS: Aluminium anodized tower bolts shall comply with IS: 204 (Part-II) specifications for 
tower bolts, Part-II non-ferrous metals. The shape and size of tower bolt shall be as indicated. The type 
and size of tower bolt shall be as specified in respective item. Barrel and tower bolts, wherever possible 
shall have the knob integral with bolts. In case it is not possible to provide a single piece construction of 
bolt, the knob may preferable be fitted to the bolts with a pin or alternatively screwed and riveted to the 
bolts, and its shape may be round as directed. Where diameter of bolt of particular size of tower bolt is 
not stated in the IS, the bolt shall be of 10mm dia upto size 125mm and 12mm dia for sizes 150mm and 
above.  

9.6  
SLIDING DOOR BOLTS: Where shown on drawings sliding door bolts shall be of aluminium anodised all as 
per IS- 2681 of 1979 and 9.5.2 of MES Schedule 2009 Part-I (Specifications). The dia of bolt unless 
otherwise shown on drawings shall be 16mm.  

9.7  
HANDLES: Handles for doors shall be aluminium anodized fabricated type as specified in clause No.9.11 
of MES Schedule Part-I, and sizes of handles shall be provided as indicated in drawings.  

9.8 
HYDRAULIC DOOR CLOSER: Aluminium doors shall be provided with aluminium die cast body door closer, 
hydraulically regulated designation No 2, universal type conforming to IS 3564 and shall be as specified in 
Clause No 9.16 and 9.16.1 of MES Schedule 2009 Part-I (Specifications).  

9.9 
DRAPERY ROD: Drapery Rod shall be provided in all the quarters at the places shown on typical floor plan 
and shall be of high strength aluminium rod powder coated thickness 40-60micron outer dia 19/20mm 
and inner dia 16mm with plastic rings made of ABS plastics for all quarters. The brackets shall be of 
galvanized steel 1.6mm thick. The drapery rod shall be of make approved by GE. 

 

  
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 258 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
10. 
STEEL AND IRON WORK:  

10.1. 
GENERAL:  Steel and ironwork in various situations shall be carried out as specified in MES Schedule 
Part – I, Section – 10 and as shown in drawings. However, TMT bars shall be used in lieu of CTD bars 
in case shown in any drawing. All steel required for the work under the contract shall be procured, 
supplied and incorporated in the works by the contractor under his own arrangement. 

10.2.  
GRADES AND QUALITY:   

10.2.1. 
Steel supplied by the contractor shall conform to the following grades and quality:  

[a]  
Steel for Concrete Reinforcement: 
 

[i]  
High strength corrosion resistant deformed steel bars  produced by Thermo 
Mechanical Treatment process [TMT] steel bars of grades Fe-500D, meeting all other 
requirements of IS – 1786. Minimum elongation shall be 18%.  Please note that the 
steel bars of grade Fe-415 stand discontinued for use. 
 
[ii]  
Mild steel bars shall conform to IS – 432 [Part-I] and Grade – I. 
 
[b] 
      Structural Steel [Refer Clause 10.4 of MES Schedule Part – I [2009]:  

[i]   Standard quality structural steel of Grade E 250 [Fe-410W Quality B/BR] conforming to IS 

– 2062 shall be used for all types of steel structures including those subject to Dynamic 
Loading.   
 
[ii] 
Ordinary quality structural steel wherever mentioned shall be conforming to IS – 2062 of 
Grade E 165 [Fe-290]. This shall be used for doors, windows, guard bars, grills, steel 
gates, hand railing, fencing posts etc.  
 
[c]   
Galvanised Steel Sheets [Plain & Corrugated]:  Galvanised steel sheets [Plain and 
Corrugated] shall conform to IS–277. Unless otherwise specified the sheet shall be of Galvanised 
Class – 4. Grade of zinc coating shall be as per clause 10.29.1 of MES Schedule Part – I. 
 
[d]  
Hard drawn Steel Wire Fabric for Concrete Reinforcement:  Fabric reinforcement shall 
conform to IS – 1566. 
 
[e]  
Steel Tubes for Structural Purposes:  Steel tubes for structural purposes shall conform to IS – 
1161 and shall be of grade Yst-240.  

 

10.2.2.      SOURCE OF PROCUREMENT : 

10.2.2.1. High strength corrosion resistant deformed  TMT Steel Bars of Grade Fe-500D  of all sizes supplied by 

the contractor shall be procured  directly from   Steel Authority of India Limited [SAIL] / Rashtriya 
Ispat Nigam Ltd [RINL] / Tata Iron & Steel Company [TISCO or Tata steel]  or from the 
following approved primary producers who are manufacturing  corrosion 
resistant 
steel 
reinforcement : 

 
[i] 
M/s. Shyam Steel Industries Ltd. [For Fe 500, Fe 500 D & CRS] , Brand:  “ Shyam”   

[ii] 
M/s. Steel Exchange India Ltd. [For Fe 500, Fe 500 D & HSCRM], Brand : “ Simhadri TMT”   

[iii]    M/s. JSW Steel Ltd. [For Fe 500, Fe 500 D, Fe 550D & CRS] , Brand : “ Neosteel”   

[iv]   M/s. Kamachi Industries Ltd [For Fe 500, Fe 500 D, Fe 550, Fe 550D & HCRM],           

Brand : “ Kamachi”  (8-40mm)  

[v] 
M/s. Gallantt Metal Ltd [For Fe 500, Fe 500 D & CRS] , Brand : “ Gallantt TMX”  (8-32mm)  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 259 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
10.2.2.2  Structural Steel: -  Structural steel supplied by the contractor shall be procured directly from following 

primary producers. 

[i]  Steel Authority of India Limited [SAIL] [ ii]  Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd [RINL] 

[iii]  Tata Iron & Steel Company [TISCO or Tata steel] (Brand TATA) 

[iv]  Jindal Steel and Power Limited [JINDAL] 

10.2.2.3. In no case Structural steel of all sizes shall be allowed to be procured from other than the above 

mentioned producers. 

10.2.2.4 Galvanised sheets and fabric reinforcement for concrete shall be procured directly from Main 

manufacturers like SAIL, RINL and TISCO or BIS marked manufacturers at the option of contractor 
without any minus price adjustment. 

10.3. 
 All finished steel shall be well and clearly rolled to the dimensions, sections and weights specified. The 
finished material shall be reasonably free from cracks, surface flaws, laminations, rough jagged and 
imperfect edges and any other harmful defects and shall be finished in a proper manner.  Tolerance on 
size and weight of reinforcement bars shall not be more than as specified in Clause 10.17.4 and 10.17.5 
of SSR Part – I and as specified in IS – 1786 and IS – 2062 and as per relevant IS codes. 

10.4. 
TESTING OF STEEL: 

10.4.1. 
[a] 
The manufacturers of steel are to carry out inspection and testing of steel in accordance with 
the relevant BIS provisions. The contractor shall submit manufacturer’s test certificate in 
original or authenticated attested true copy by the manufacturers only along with the test 
sheet giving the result of each mechanical test as applicable in accordance with relevant IS 
provision and the chemical composition of the steel or authenticated copy with each 
consignment.  The Engineer-in-Charge shall record these details in a Steel Acceptance 
Register which will be signed by the Junior Engineer, Engineer-in-Charge, GE and Contractor 
as given in the format as  Annexure “D” & Annexure “E”  hereinafter, after due verification 
and Engineer-in-Charge shall send a certified true copy of test sheet to GE for his records.  

[b]   
Independent testing of steel / structural steel / GI Sheets and fabric reinforcement for concrete by 
the GE shall be optional at the discretion of the GE in case of procurement of steel from main 
producers and testing charges shall be borne in accordance with Condition 10A of IAFW 2249 i.e. 
testing charges shall be borne by the Department if the test results are found in order otherwise 
these shall be borne by the Contractor. 
 
[c] 
Independent testing of Structural Steel, GI Sheets and Fabric Reinforcement by the GE shall be 
mandatory and testing charges shall be borne by the Contractor irrespective of the outcome of 
test results.  
[d]  
For independent testing, random samples of steel drawn from various lots and shall be got 
tested from a National Test House / SEMT Wing / Government Approved Laboratories / NABL 
Accredited Laboratories / Regional Research Laboratories / IIT / National Institute of 
Technology / Command Testing Lab as per the minimum frequency given below. Samples 
from each lot shall be also tested for quality and elongation.   

[e]  
In all cases mentioned above contractor at his cost shall provide all facilities required for the 
testing. Cost of materials consumed in tests shall also be borne by contractor.   

10.4.2. 
Ultimate tensile strength elongation, bend and re bend test for reinforcement steel bars shall be carried 
out as per clause 9 and test specimen shall be as per clause 11 and delivery inspection shall be as per 
Clause 12 of IS – 1786. Bend tests and tensile tests for structural steel shall be carried out as per IS – 
2062 and recorded as per  Annexure “F”. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 260 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
10.5. 
FREQUENCY OF SAMPLING FOR INDEPENDENT TESTING BY GE:   

10.5.1. 
Frequency for nominal mass, tensile strength, bend and re-bend tests of steel for checking nominal 
mass, tensile strength, bend, re-bend test, test specimen at random shall be selected by the GE at 
following frequency: 

SerNo.
Nominal Size 
Frequency 

[a] 
STEEL FOR CONCRETE REINFORCEMENT: 

1 
Bars size less than 10 
mm 

1 Sample [3 specimens] for each test for every 25 tonnes or part 
thereof 

2 
Bar size 10mm to 16 
mm 

1 Sample [3 specimens] for each test for every 35 tonnes or part 
thereof 

3 
Bar size over 16 mm 

1 Sample [3 specimens] for each test for every 45 tonnes or part 
thereof 

[b] 
STRUCTURAL STEEL: 

4 
Tensile Test 
1 Test for every 25 tonnes of steel or part thereof 

5 
Bend Test 
1 Test for every 25 tonnes of steel or part thereof 

 
10.5.2. 
The testing by GE as per above frequency is mandatory before payment is released to the contractor in 
case of structural steel from secondary producers. The GE may also increase the frequency and number 
of samples / tests for his satisfaction. The cost of these additional tests shall be governed as per 
Condition 10 [A] of IAFW – 2249. However, cost of samples, transportation and other overheads shall 
be borne by the contractor irrespective of test results. 

10.5.3. 
Test shall not be insisted upon for the steel required for guard bars, holdfasts, grills and such other 
allied items. 

10.5.4. 
In case test results of testing pursuant to clause 10.5.1 are not within the acceptable limits, then that 
consignment of steel shall stand rejected and contractor shall remove the same from site at his own 
cost.  The rejected material shall not be incorporated in the work.  The contractor shall have no claim 
on this account.   

10.5.5. 
Cost of test samples as per frequency given in clause 10.5.1 above shall be borne by the contractor 
irrespective of test results.  

10.6. 
DOCUMENTATION:  

10.6.1. 
Original purchase vouchers from the manufacturer, and original or authenticated test certificates of the 
manufacturers for the total quantity of steel supplied under each consignment to be incorporated in the 
work shall be produced to the Engineer-in-Charge of the work by the contractor.  All consignments 
received at the work site shall be inspected by the GE along with the relevant documents before 
acceptance.  The original vouchers and the test certificates shall be defaced and signed by the 
Engineer-in-Charge and kept on record in the office of the GE duly authenticated and with cross 
reference to the control number recorded in the steel acceptance register. The steel acceptance register 
shall be signed by JE, Engineer-in-Charge, GE and contractor. The entire quantity of all consignments 
shall also be suitably recorded in the measurements book for record purposes as “NOT TO BE 
ABSTRACTED” before incorporation in the work and shall be signed by the Engineer-in-Charge and 
contractor. The following provisions shall also be complied: 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 261 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[a] 
All original vouchers will be kept in a file serially numbered and to be kept in GE’s office 

[b] 
Test certificates of each steel consignment will be kept in a file, serially numbered and shall 
be kept in GE’s office. 

[c] 
Steel Acceptance Register as per  Annexure “D”  will be maintained by the GE  

[d] 
In/Out Register for details of receipt, acceptance/rejection and consumption of steel will be 
maintained as per  Annexure “G”.  

[e] 
Register containing results of independent and additional testing by   GE 

[f] 
Inspection registers 

10.6.2. 
CWE / GE will check the documents personally, connected with the steel, at least once a month and 
record of these check will be kept in the Inspection Register [Para 10.6.1 [f] above]. 

10.7. 
STORAGE ACCEPTANCE/PRESERVATION OF STEEL: 
 
10.7.1. 
The steel procured by the contractor shall be stored in the site of work as directed by Engineer-in-
Charge / GE neatly in separate stacks at least 15 cm above GL for various grades / quality / sizes / 
consignments with distinct paint marks for identification. The steel so stacked shall be removed for 
incorporation in the work only in the presence of departmental representative.  The quantity of steel of 
various sizes received at site and recommended for incorporation in the work shall be entered in a 
separate register and signed by the contractor and the Engineer-in-Charge daily. 
 
10.7.2. 
Steel will be stored in a manner so as to prevent distortion and corrosion till it is consumed in the work.  
Any section that has deteriorated and corroded or if, considered defective for any other reason, the 
same shall be removed from site by contractor at his own cost. 
 
10.7.3. 
The contractor will keep a separate stack of steel brought at site for inspection, away from the accepted 
stack of steel.  In case, the consignment does not meet any of the requirements of the relevant IS 
codes, the steel will be rejected by the GE and it will be removed from the site within 24 hours at the 
cost of the contractor. 
 
10.8. 
CONVERSION WEIGHT OF STEEL:  

10.8.1. 
The weight of steel shall be calculated as per the conversion factors specified in the MES Schedule.  For 
sections not listed in MES Schedule, ISI conversion table shall be followed or manufacturer’s certificate 
if the weights are not available in SSR/ISI tables. 

10.8.2. 
Normal waste and off-cuts shall be stacked neatly which shall be the property of contractor.  Contractor 
shall be allowed to remove such cut pieces after inspection and certification by the Engineer-in-Charge. 

10.8.3. 
Advance on account of payment made towards these cut pieces shall be adjusted from advance on 
account of payment immediately falling due and before removal of such cut pieces from site. 

10.9. 
PAYMENT IN RAR: 

10.9.1. 
Payment of the steel brought by the contractor should only be released by the GE after taking action on 
points enumerated in para 10.6 hereinbefore and after completing the documentation mentioned 
hereinbefore in this regard. 

10.9.2. 
Before procurement of steel, contract and structural drawing shall be read thoroughly and various 
grades/types of steel to be incorporated in the work shall be identified by contractor and got approved 
by the GE.  Steel shall be procured sufficiently in advance as mentioned hereinafter under clause 10.11 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 262 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
10.10 
SAFETY OF STEEL:  It will be responsibility of contractor to make sure that all possible arrangement 
are made for safe custody of the steel.  In case of any loss of steel, only contractor will be responsible 
and the loss will be made good by contractor without any delay or claim what so ever. 

10.11. 
SCHEDULE OF SUPPLY:  Contractor shall work out complete requirement of steel size wise and phase 
the same as per the activities planned to be executed in terms of CPM networking. The contractor shall 
procure all the steel sections in accordance with this CPM chart. Schedule of supply of steel will be 
finalized by GE in consultation with contractor and same will be incorporated in CPM chart so that 
supply of steel is monitored in a way to avoid any delay in completion of the work. The schedule of 
supply of steel will be vetted by CWE from time to time. 

10.12. 
HOLD FASTS:  Provision of hold fasts to chowkats of doors/windows/ventilators and cupboards, etc all 
as per details shown on drawings and as specified.  These shall be embedded with PCC [1:2:4] type B1 
using 20 mm graded stone aggregate in the wall/mix of concrete as per the columns. 

10.13. 
STAINLESS STEEL WIRE MESH:   Provide stainless steel wire mesh for mosquito proofing irrespective 
what is indicated on the drawings. The stainless steel wire mesh shall be of wire cloth 0.45 mm nominal 
dia of wire and average width of aperture 1.40 mm fixed with staples. The mesh shall be fixed to 
shutters / frames using second class hard wood beading, wrought faces, fixed with screws.  

10.14. 
FAN HOOKS WITH BOXES:  Wherever fan hooks/fan points have been shown, MS boxes with fan 
hooks shall be provided as per detail shown on drawings.  Exposed faces shall be given two coats of 
white paint over a coat of red oxide primer.  However, fan hooks without boxes shall be provided in 
roof slab. Fan hook boxes shall be covered with 3 mm thick plastic laminated sheet of required colour. 

10.15. 
DASH-THRU-FASTENERS:  Where the frames of doors, windows, cupboards are to be fixed to 
reinforced concrete jambs, these shall be fixed with “Dash-Thru-Expansion Fasteners” of adequate size 
manufactured by “Dash Fasteners Pvt. Ltd, C-10, South Extension Part – II, New Delhi” and marketed 
by “M/s Moni Traders, C-16, Tardeo AC Market, Mumbai – 400 034”.  Wherever expansion fasteners are 
being used hold fasts / lugs need not be used. 

10.16. 
MS GRILLS:  Provide fabricated MS Grills to windows wherever shown on drawings.  MS grills shall be 
fabricated with MS bars / flat to required size all as per the details shown on drawings.  MS Grills shall 
be fixed to chowkats with suitable GI screws all as directed.  All the surfaces of grills shall be treated 
with paints as specified hereinafter for steel surfaces. 

10.17. 
MS GUARD BARS:  MS guard bars shall be provided to ventilators wherever shown on drawings. The 
surfaces of guard bars shall be treated with paints as specified hereinafter.  

10.18. 
RCC JALLI:  Provide RCC jalli at the locations and the details shown on drawings.  Faces of RCC Jalli 
shall have fair and even surfaces.  The finish given to adjoining wall surfaces shall be provided to RCC 
Jalli.  The RCC Jalli shall be set and jointed in cement mortar [1:4].      

10.19. 
BENDING OF BARS BY BAR BENDING MACHINE:  TMT bars used for reinforced concrete works 
shall only be bent using bar bending machine driven by motor powered by not less than 5 HP suitable 
for bars of dia up to 32 mm as approved by GE. Bending of bars shall in no case be allowed to be done 
manually. The number of bar bending machines to be provided at site shall be adequate enough to 
execute the works at all sites simultaneously as per the CPM. No claim whatsoever arising out on this 
account shall be admissible. 

10.20. 
WELDING:  The welding work shall be executed all as specified in clause No. 10.15 & 10.16 of MES 
Schedule part I as applicable.  All Welding shall be carried out by metal arc welding process conforming 
to the requirements of IS – 1024. The welding electrodes shall conform to IS 814. Filler wire & flux shall 
conform to IS – 3613.  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 263 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
 10.21 
ROLLING SHUTTER:  Rolling shutter shall be of mechanical gear operated type with ball bearing 
including top cover, anchoring, and other accessories all as specified in MES Schedule Part – I. The 
thickness of lath section shall be 1.25 mm thick and all the steel surfaces shall be painted with two 
coats of synthetic enamel paint over one coat of red oxide primer. Rolling shutters shall be any one of 
the makes specified in Appendix ‘B’ and shall conform to IS 6248. 

10.22  MS LOCKERS : Steel lockers shall be of factory made (body, shutter and Shelves shall be made out of 

1mm thick MS plain black sheet) all as shown on drawings. MS plain black sheet shall confirm to relevant 
IS and procured from the main producers of steel like RINL, TATA, SAIL etc as approved by GE. All 
joints/welding/fixing shall be done all as shown on drawings and with standard workmanship. The lockers 
shall be provided with proper locking device as per ‘Godrej’ pattern as approved by GE.  The handle shall 
be made as per ‘Godrej’ pattern.  All steel surfaces internally and externally shall be treated with two 
coats of synthetic enamel paint over a coat of red oxide primer.   Painting shall be done with spray 
machine. The welding joints shall be filed smooth.  The surface shall be thoroughly cleaned and prepared 
prior to application of painting.  All other details shall be provide as shown on drawings. 

10.23    COLLAPSIBLE STEEL GATES  

10.23.1 Collapsible steel gates shall be of approved design and top hung type. These shall be with single or 

double leaves as indicated. It shall be any one of the make specified in list of makes. 

10.23.2  
Rolled steel channels for vertical supports, flats for crossing, and tee and flats for top and bottom 
runner shall be mild steel conforming to IS 2062-2006. Roller wheels shall be of grey iron casting 
generally conforming to grade FG 150 of IS 210-1993 and shall be capable of taking the weight of the 
gate. Rivets used shall not be less than 6mm and shall be of snap headed type. Other fittings such as 
folding stoppers, fixing hold fasts, locking cleats, brass handles on both sides and cast iron rollers shall 
be of approved design and size. 

10.23.3  
The dimensions and other particulars shall generally be as under, unless otherwise indicated. The 
dimensions given are normally for a collapsible gate of maximum height of 3m 

 
(a) MS Channel = Hot rolled medium channel 18x9x3mm.  
(b) Flats for crossings = 18x5 mm. 

 
(c) Tee and flats for top and bottom runners with a minimum web of 40x12mm and flange of 
40x6mm. 

 
(c) The distance from centre to centre of channel pickets = 10 cm. 

10.23.4  
The bottom and top runners are fabricated separately with necessary holding fixtures for burying in 
the ground or fixing in the lintel respectively. The gates shall be provided with locking arrangement so 
that locking with padlock can be done. 

10.23.5  
Collapsible gates may be fixed under the lintels or fixed on outside/inside of the wall as indicated. 
Gates shall be fixed moveable on top and bottom channels with swinging arrangements on either 
side. Single leaf collapsible gate can be with single panel collapsible at right or left end. Fixing of 
collapsible gates shall be carried out in a workman like manner, the gate shall open and close 
smoothly and easily, the bottom runnel' shall be sunk level with floor. The gate shall be cleaned of all 
rust and mill scales etc. The wheel shall be fitted with ball bearing for width of opening more than 
l.5m. 

10.24 
GRILL DOOR :  Grill door shall be provided as per size as shown on drawing. The door shall be 
painted with two coats of synthetic enamel paint over a coat of red oxide zinc chrome primer. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 264 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
11. 
RCC ROOFING:    

11.1 
  GENERAL  

(a) 
RCC Roof slabs shall be cast/laid to slopes as indicated in the drawings and the thickness shown on 
drawings shall be considered as minimum thickness. 

(b) 
RCC roof slab/terrace slab after application of plaster shall be prepared as described in Para 11.31.2 
and 11.31.2.1 of MES Schedule Part – I [Specifications] before carrying out any treatment. 

(c) 
PONDING TEST: After RCC slab is laid, cured and fully set, ponding shall be done over slab by filling 
water and shall be kept for 48hours. In case slightest indication of seepage / leakage is noticed, the 
same shall be rectified by grouting and/ or plastering with cement mortar 1:3, after roughening the 
affected portion at no extra cost. Water proofing Treatment on roof slabs shall be carried out when 
there is no seepage/ leakage observed. 

(d) 
Area below/around the location where water tank is to be placed shall be suitably raised with PCC 1:2:4 
type B0 to drain off the over flow/ leakage water effectively. 

(e)        All joints and changes in direction should be cured with cement mortar [1:3] mixed with SBR Latex @ 

200 ml per bag of cement and cured before laying membrane by torching. All angles and abutment 
should be sealed with extra care to ensure full bondage. 

11.2 
WATER PROOFING TREATMENT OVER ROOF SLAB [FOR NON ACCESSIBLE ROOF]  

11.2.1  
The RCC roof slab shall be laid to slopes/laid flat and padding concrete of 1:3:6 type C1 [using 20 mm 
graded stone aggregate] mixted with WPC shall be provided to achieve the slope as indicated in 
drawings.   

11.2.2 
Water proofing treatment to roof slab shall be provided as under: - 

[a]  
The RCC roof slab shall be laid to slopes/laid flat and padding concrete of 1:3:6 type C1 
[using 20 mm graded stone aggregate] mixted with WPC@5% of weight of cement shall be 
provided to achieve the slope as indicated in drawings. 

[b]  
Roof slab shall be cleaned thoroughly by using wire brush [Mechanical / hand brush] to make 
it free from any loose particle, dirt / dust, etc. 

[c]  
Cement slurry @ 3 Kg/Sqm shall be provided over cleaned roof surface. 

[d]  
Thereafter 5mm thick cement screed in cement mortar 1:4 with acrylic based   water proofing 
compound as per manufacturer instructions will be applied on surface to have a smooth 
surface for laying of water proofing membrane. 

[e]  
After setting & drying cement screed, the surface shall be painted with one coat of cold 
applied bituminous primer @ 2. 0 kg per sq. m, all as described in paras 11.44.5 of MES 
Schedule Part-I. 

[f]  
Atactic polypropylene polymeric modified prefabricated water proofing membrane five layered 
reinforced with non woven polyester matt of minimum 3mm thick weight not lessthan 3 
Kg/Sq.m shall be laid using butane torch application over entire roof surface and on vertical 
surface up to grooves as applicable [or as per manufacturers recommendation] with over laps 
of 100mm in both the directions. The overlaps shall be sealed by flames or as per 
manufacturer instructions. Water proofing membrane shall be tucked in wall to a depth of 
25mm [minimum] where applicable. Groove made in wall shall be filled with bitumen mastic 
filling without any extra cost to Govt.  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 265 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[g]  
Finally it shall be finished with a coat of bituminous aluminium primer @ 0.20 Kg/Sqm in two 
coats. 

[h]  
Proper care shall be taken to provide similar treatment near junction of roof and parapet to 
avoid any leakage through junction. Benching (gola) of concave shape 80mm radius at 
junctions of roof/ terrace with parapets / side walls with PCC (1:2:4) Type B-0 where 
applicable shall be provided 

11.3.  
WATER PROOFING TREATMENT OVER ROOF SLAB OF BUILDINGS [FOR ACCESSIBLE ROOF] 
 
11.3.1. 
Water proofing treatment to roof slab shall be provided as under: 

 

[a] 
Same as 11.2.2 [a] to [f] above and: 

 
[b] 
Hydraulically pressed cement concrete tiles 200 X 200 X 22 mm size, colour and shape as 
approved by GE, conforming to IS 1237-1980, shall be laid on 15 mm thick cement sand 
mortar 1:4, jointed and pointed in cement sand mortar 1:3 [joint thickness not exc. 5mm]. 

11.4. 
TREATMENT OVER CHAJJAS/CANOPY/ PORTICOS OF BUILDINGS UNDER SCHEDULE “A” 
PART – I AND INTERNAL SURFACE OF RCC GUTTER WHERE APPLICABLE:  

11.4.1  
Top of RCC Chajja/Canopy/Portico/Gutter shall be plastered 15mm thick in cement mortar [1:4] mixed 
with water proofing compound as per manufacturer’s instructions and finished to a slope of 1:60. The 
plaster shall be taken up to 200mm height over adjacent vertical surfaces of walls in addition to 
external plaster for a length equal to length of chajja. 

11.4.2 
Poly water proofing membrane on top of Chajjas shall not be required and remaining specification for 
Water proofing shall be applicable to chajjas. 

11.5 
MATERIAL  

11.5.1 
Atactic polypropylene polymer (APP) modified prefabricated membrane shall be 3 mm thick, weight 
not less then 3kg/Sqm with five layered reinforced with non woven polyester matt all as described in 
paras 11.44.2.2 of MES Schedule Part-I. 

11.5.2      Test Certificate:   Contractor shall submit manufacturer test certificate and cash memo / bill / invoice in 

original for water proofing membrane before claiming payment and incorporating the same in the work. 

11.5.3   The work of water proofing treatment to roof shall be carried out in presence of approved applicator 

under the guidance of manufacturer of water proofing membrane and a certificate to this effect shall be 
taken by contractor from manufacturer and shall be submitted to GE before completion of work.   

11.6 
Flooding test of roof : On completion of water proofing treatment as herein before, the contractor 
shall carryout flooding test by forming earthen bunds over the roof at suitable intervals as desired by 
GE.  Water will be ponded for three days and leakage / seepage noticed shall be rectified by the 
contractor to the satisfaction of GE at no extra cost to Government.  The cost on this account shall be 
included in relevant items in Schedule ‘A’ / Lump sum amount quoted for the buildings. 

11.7   
The contractor shall give a written guarantee for effectiveness of water proofing treatment for 10[TEN] 
years from the certified date of completion of entire work.  The guarantee amount shall be 3% of 
the cost of the water proofing treatment as decided by the GE  and the same shall be retained 
by the Government from the contractor’s dues. This amount shall only be released after successful 
expiry of the guarantee period. The contractor may however, furnish a fixed deposit receipt in lieu, 
from a Schedule bank, pledged in favour of Garrison Engineer for the period of Guarantee. However, 
the guarantee amount will be released to the contractor if a fixed deposit. Receipt in favour of GE for 
10 Years is submitted by the contractor.  The fixed deposit receipt amount shall be released to the 
contractor after expiry of guarantee period satisfactorily. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 266 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
11.7.1   Should the GE at any time during construction or reconstruction or prior to the expiry of the Guarantee 

period, finds that the buildings have been noticed with leakage  the contractor shall, on demand in 
writing from the GE  specifying the buildings complained of, not with-standing that the same may have 
been inadvertently passed/certified and paid for, undertake to carryout such treatment as may be 
necessary forthwith to render the building[s] free from leakage at his own expense till the expiry of the 
guarantee period.  In the event of his failure to do so, within the specified period to be specified by the 
GE in his demand aforesaid, the GE may undertake such treatment at the risk and expense in all 
respects of the contractor.  The liability of the contractor under this condition shall not extend beyond 
the period of ten years from the certified date of completion, unless the GE had previously given notice 
to the contractor to rectify the defects. The defects liability period mentioned under condition 46 of 
IAFW-2249 General Conditions of Contracts shall be deemed amended accordingly for the purpose of 
this condition 

11.8    
A cement mortar tablet of size 300mm x 300mm x 10mm thick shall be prepared on external wall of 
each building in which water proofing treatment to be carried out and CA No., date of expiry of 
guarantee period and name of the contractor shall be written on the tablet on the date of completion of 
work under the heading “Details of water proofing treatment of roof”. 

11.9     
TRIANGULAR FILLETING:  

11.9.1  
At the junction of roof slab with parapet wall and wall with chajja / canopy provide coving of PCC 
[1:2:4] Bo [using 12.5mm graded aggregate] type, mixed with water proofing compound. 

11.9.2 
Provide water proof plaster 5 mm thick in CM 1:4 for height of 30cm above top of coving in case of roof 
slab. 

11.10. 
HDPE WATER TANK:  Rotational moulded polyethylene water storage tanks [Triple layered] shall be as 
per IS-12701 and shall be of any of one of the makes as specified hereinafter. The inlet connection 
shall be provided with a plunger type ball valve of brass of the dia of inlet pipe with polythene float 
valve 40 mm bore. GI Over flow pipe and wash out pipe of size 25 mm bore shall be provided from roof 
top to ground level with perforated PVC mosquito cover screwed to the pipe, whether shown on 
drawing or not, provide 30 cm long inlet, 30 cm long outlet GI pipe medium grade of suitable dia with 
necessary check nuts and the Lumpsum quoted for buildings under Schedule "A" Part – I shall deemed 
to include the cost of the same. Tanks shall be seated over 100 mm thick [Minimum] PCC 1:2:4 type B1 
[using 20 mm graded stone aggregate] platform of adequate size all as directed by the Engineer-in-
Charge.  

11.11. 
SPOUTS:  Provide UPVC spouts at locations with diameter and length as shown on drawings. UPVC 
pipes shall be pressure rating 4.5 KG / Sq.cm and GI pipe shall be of medium grade.  

11.12 
RCC   OVER HEAD TANKS    

11.12.1 
RCC overhead tanks shall be provided all as per details shown in drawings with following 
specifications: -  

 
(a) RCC M40 (Design Mix) mixed with Algi proof integral water proofing compound confirming to IS: 
2645 as per Manufacturer’s instructions. 

 
(b) Water proofing plaster shall be carried out as per described in drawings. 

 
(c) Inlet, Outlet, Washout and overflow pipes, valves shall be provided as per the drawings and as 
directed. Construction joint shall be provided as per standard engineering practice all as directed by 
the Engineer-in-Charge. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 267 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
 
(d) Contractor shall submit written guarantee for the effectiveness of the water proofing treatment 
carried out for a period of 10 years.   3% of the cost of water proofing treatment at contract 
rates subjected to a minimum of Rs. 20000/ each tank (Rupees Twenty Thousand only)  
shall be retained from the payment due to the contractor. Alternatively, contractor shall submit fixed 
deposit receipt for the said period and amount in favour of the GE. The guarantee amount shall be 
released to the contractor after successful completion of the guarantee period. 

 
(e) Testing of RCC over Head Tank for water tightness: Testing shall be done in accordance with IS-
3370. The Over Head Tank shall be filled with water very slowly upto half the depth and allowed to 
remain for a period of 7 days. Thereafter water shall be filled to the full rated capacity and shall be 
allowed to remain for a further period of 7 days. The structure should not show any sign of leakage 
or sweating during this period. The drop in water level during during 24 hours after the Over Head 
Tank is filled to full capacity shall not exceed 115mm. Any leakage or sweating noticed shall be 
rectified and complete water tightness shall be achieved by the contractor to the entire satisfaction of 
Engineer-in-Charge. Water required for testing the Over Head Tank shall be supplied by the DGNP(V) 
at the rate as specified here-in-before. 

 
(f) The Over Head Tank after completion/Testing and till handed over to the department shall be 
filled with water and shall not be kept dry under any circumstances by the contractor. 

 
(g) Rest of the specifications all as shown/described in the drawings and as specified here-in-before 
and the Lump Sum quoted shall deemed to include in rate quoted. 

 
(h) Lumpsum quoted shall deemed to include the plastering over Slab of 10mm thick with CM 1:3 
including water proofing compound and finishes of plaster surfaces. Necessary records of tests shall 
be maintained duly signed by the Engineer-in-Charge and representative of the Contractor and shall 
be countersigned by the GE. 

11.13 
RCC UNDERGROUND SUMPS:    

11.13.1 
Provide RCC  Underground Sump  all as shown on drawing. All internal and external surfaces, water 
proofing treatment of  Underground Sump  shall be provided all as specified in drawings. The 
Lumpsum quoted shall deemed to include cost of ladders, water level indicator, railings, rungs, 
aluminium mosquito proofing wire mesh, inlet / outlet / wash out /overflow pipes. 

 
11.13.2 
The specifications as specified herein before for Schedule "A" Part – I shall be applicable . 

 
11.13.3 
EXCAVATION:  Excavation and earthwork required for the tank is included in the Lumpsum and shall 
be as specified herein before. 

 
11.13.4 
CONCRETE:  Type of the concrete for the RCC sump shall be  RCC M-40 Design Mix concrete  
[controlled concrete]  mixed with Algi proof integral water proofing compound  confirming to IS: 
2645 as per Manufacturer’s instructions.  

 
11.13.5 
STEEL:  Steel for concrete reinforcement shall be of high strength deformed steel CRS bars of grade Fe-
500D produced by thermo mechanical treatment process [TMT steel bars] as specified herein before. 

 
11.13.6 
MS RUNGS:  Irrespective of shown on drawing or not ,  Rungs shall be provided. It shall be 20mm MS 
rod@300mm centre to centre staggred, bent to shape and fixed in position. Exposed faces of rungs 
shall be painted with two coats of synthetic enamel paint over a coat of primer all as specified herein 
before. 

 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 268 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
11.13.7 
WATER PROOFING TREATMENT:   

 
 
(i)  
BASE SLAB 
 

(a)   Lean concrete surface shall be rendered with 10mm thick screed in cement mortar [1:3] mixed with 

water proofing compound as per manufacturer's instructions and one layer of APP polymeric 
modified bitumen water proofing membrane minimum 3mm thick weight not lessthan 3 Kg/Sq.m 
shall be laid as per manufacturer's instructions and protected by provision of 40mm thick plaster in 
CM 1:3 in two layers.  
 
(b)   Special threaded nozzels (for injection of grout) of 12mm dia length equal to half of the depth of 

slab be placed in a grid pattern during concreting at 1.5m c/c all over the slab. The nozzels should 
be kept plugged during concreting to keep out grit & dirt.  
 

(c)   A non shrink polymeric waterproofing grouting compound mixed with neat cement slurry be 

injected through the nozzels under pressure not excedding 2kg/Sqcm to ensure that grout runs 
through all pours and cracks and sealing them after injection is over. The nozzels shall be sealed off 
with sealing compound. 
 

(ii)  
WALLS:   

 

(a)   Special threaded nozzels (for injection of grout) of 12mm dia length equal to half of the depth of 

wall shall be placed in a grid pattern during concreting at 1.5m c/c all over the walls. The nozzels 
should be kept plugged during concreting to keep out grit & dirt.  
 
(b)   A non shrink polymeric waterproofing grouting compound mixed with neat cement slurry be 

injected through the nozzels under pressure not excedding 2kg/Sqcm to ensure that grout runs 
through all pours and cracks and sealing them after injection is over. The nozzels shall be sealed off 
with sealing compound. 

 
(iii)  
After complete operation of above mentioned treatment, the inside surface of walls and top 
surface of the flooring shall be made rough with hacking tool, washed with water and wire 
brush to remove all loose materials and shall be treated with two coats of plaster as first coat 
with  15mm thick plaster in cement mortar [1:3] and second coat with 10mm thick 
plaster in cement mortar [1:3] both the treatments shall be mixed with water 
proofing compound  as per manufacturer's instructions. The second coat shall be applied 
after allowing for the first coat to harden.  
 
(iv)  
The outside surface of side walls including vertical edge of slab and top of outside projection of 
base slab shall be treated with with  15mm thick plaster in cement mortar [1:3] mixed 
with water proofing compound  as per manufacturer's instructions and allowed for curing.  
 

(v)  
Apply one coat of polymer modified cementatious base slurry (such as tape crete or equivalent) 
as bonding material on rendered smooth inside surface of side wall and top surface of base slab. 
 

(vi)  
Apply two coats of polymer modified cementatious base slurry (such as tape crete or equivalent) 
as bonding material on rendered smooth outside surface of side walls including vertical edge of 
slab and top of outside projection of base slab. 
 

 
11.13.8 
Testing shall be carried out as specified in drawing. Testing of water proofing treatment shall be done 
by filling the tank with water and impounding for 48 hours.  Contractor shall give written guarantee for 
effectiveness of water proofing for  10 [Ten] Years  from the certified date of completion of entire 
work. An amount of  Rs. 50,000.00 [Rupees fifty thousand only per each sump]  shall be retained 
from the amount of final bill as guarantee amount. However, the guarantee amount will be released to 
the contractor if a fixed deposit receipt in favour of GE for equal amount for 10 years is submitted by 
the contractor from any scheduled bank.  The fixed deposit receipt or the guarantee amount retained 
from the final bill shall be released to the contractor after the expiry of the guarantee period 
satisfactorily. 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 269 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
11.13.9 
HYDRAULIC TESTING:  Structure shall be tested strictly in accordance with IS – 3370, Part – I for 
water tightness. The contractor shall provide all necessary tools and plants required for the testing at 
his own cost. Water required for testing shall be supplied by the DGNP(V) at the rate as specified here-
in-before. The contractor shall make all the necessary arrangements to fill the tank to the maximum 
level as required for testing. The contractor shall rectify all the defects listed out during testing, due to 
leakage, sweating, etc to the fullest satisfaction of the GE. 

11.13.10 The Lumpsum quoted by the tenderer shall be deemed to include all the cost thereof and no extra 

claim in this respect shall be entitled. 
 
11.13.11 The UG Tank / sump after completion/Testing and till handed over to the department shall be filled with 

water and shall not be kept dry under any circumstances by the contractor. 

11.13.12 Necessary records of tests shall be maintained duly signed by the Engineer-in-Charge and representative 

of the Contractor and shall be countersigned by the GE. 

11.14    WATER PROOFING TREATMENT FOR SWIMMING POOL: -  

 

(i)  
Base Slab : - 

 
(a)  
Lean concrete surface (PCC 1:4:8) shall be rendered with 10 mm thick screed in CM 1:3 and 
finished smooth one layer of High Density Polyethylene Membrane (HDPE) 4-5mm thick as per 
manufacturer instructions.  
 
(b)  
The RCC slab should then be cast in the M-40 (Design Mix) Self compacting concrete integrated 
with hydrophilic crystalline waterproofing admixture in dry powder from strictly as per 
manufacturer’s instruction.  
 

 
 (c) 
The coats of polymer modified cementations base slurry (such as tape crete / Nitocote CM210 
(FOSROC /Pidilite/STP) be applied over the rendered smooth inside surface of base slab before 
placing the tiles on the bedding mortar.  

 
(ii)      Walls : - 

 
(a) 
High Density Polyethylene Membrane (HDPE) 4-5mm thick outside wall as per manufacturer 
instructions will be place on the formwork as strictly as per manufacturer instructions.  

 
(b) 
The RCC wall should be cast in the M-40 (Design mix) Self compacting concrete integrated with 
hydrophilic crystalline waterproofing admixture in dry powder from strictly as per manufacturer’s 
instruction. 

 
(c) 
After completing operations the inside surface of the walls should be made rough with a hacking 
tool washed clean with water and wire bush so as to remove all the loose materials and apply 
cement plaster in 1:3 mix 10mm thick. 

 
(d) 
WATER SWELLABLE WATER STOPS AT STARTER JOINTS: Providing and applying water 
swellable-basic polymer-hydrophillic waterstops  Supercast SW20  and equivalent at all 
construction joints, Supercast SW20 shall have unrestrained volumetric expansion up to 300%, 
shore a hardness of 25 to 35, Hydrostatic pressure resistance of 100mtrs. Supercast SW20 
(FOSROC) shall be fixed to the concrete using Supercast SWX a gun grade hydrophilic adhesive. 
 
Application of Nitobond SBR and equivalent for horizontal/day/construction joints.  

 

(d)  
Apply one coat of polymer modified cementations base slurry (Such as tape Crete/ Nitocote CM210 
(FOSROC/Pidilite/STP) as a bonding material on rendered smooth inside surface of side wall and tip 
surface of base slab before placing the tiles on the bedding mortar.  
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 270 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
11.15    
WATER PROOFING TREATMENT FOR BALANCING TANK :- 

 

(a) 
After the side walls are constructed and allowed to undergo the specified curing the inside 
surface of the wall and the flooring should be made rough with a hacking tool washed clean with 
water and wire brush so as to remove all the loose materials and water proof cement plaster 1:3 
mix with suitable proportion of any integral water proofing compound should be applied in two 
coasts the first coat being 12mm and the next 10mm thick.  The second coat should be applied 
after allowing a time interval of 24 hours for the first coat to harden.  

 
(b)      The outside surface of the side walls including vertical edge of base slab and top of outside 

projection of base slab should be treated with water proof rendering in a similar manner but in 
this case only one coat of plaster 12 mm thick will be applied instead of two successive coats. 
 
11.16   
 Testing After Construction:  - 

 

(a)   
It is detrimental to keep the water retaining structures dry as it may lead to formation of 
cracks so it is imperative that before curing of last cast portion of pool is completed water 
arrangement for testing the pool shall be kept ready at site so that testing can be commenced 
immediately  

 
(b)  
The pipes and special fixtures should be fixed in position before concreting operation so that 
these are built in the time of construction. These specials should be provided with puddle 
collars for proper grip with concrete. 
 
(c)  
The proportion of water proofing compound to be added to the water proofing plaster of 
balancing tank shall be as per manufactures instructions. 
 
(d)  
The rate of filling of water in swimming pool and balance tank shall be 300 mm depth per day 
and the testing of pool tank for water tightness be as per IS:6494 
 
(e)  
The construction of swimming pool deep excavation is involved. Therefore, adequate 
precautions shall be taken by the contractor, so that any adjoining existing structures are not 
endangered. Further adequate precautions for shoring/shuttering shall be incorporated as 
directed by the GE. 
 
(f)   
The joints will be filled by sealing compound. The physical requirements of sealing compound 
must satisfy as laid down in IS: 1834-196.  The sealing compound should be of grade ‘B’  
 
(g)  
The tentative location of construction joints shall be shown on drg. These indicates the max.  
no of constructions joints no of constructions joints can be less than the number of joints 
indicated.  
 
(h)  
The proportion of water proofing compound to be added to the water proofing plaster of 
balancing tank shall be as per manufactures instructions 
 
(i) 
The pool/balancing tank shall not be emptied during the period of high ground water table. 
 
(j) 
No part of construction shall have any contact with expansive soil and all constructions shall 
be separated from expansive soil by 600 thick layer of approved moorum. Quoted rate shall be 
inclusive of this aspect. 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 271 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
11.17  GUARANTEE FOR WATER PR O OFING TREATMENT TO SWIMMING POOL& BALANCING TANK:  
 
11.17.1 Water proofing treatment shall be carried out all as specified. Also method of construction for concreting 

(RCC work), construction joints, testing etc shall be followed all as specified in Drawing and relevant 
details in structural drawings. 
 
11.17.2  Contractor shall submit written guarantee for the effectiveness of the water proofing treatment carried 

out for a  period of 10 years .  A sum of  Rs. Five Lakhs only  shall be retained from the payment due 
to the contractor. Alternatively, contractor shall submit fixed deposit receipt for the said period and 
amount in favor of the GE.  The guarantee amount shall be released to the contractor after successful 
completion of the guarantee period.      
 
11.17.3  Should the GE at any time during construction or reconstruction or prior to the expiry of period of ten 

years after the water proofing treatment has been completed as per the contract, find water leakages in 
the structure, the contractor shall on demand, in writing from GE, forthwith undertake at his own 
expenses such treatment as may be necessary to render the said structure free from leakages for a 
period of ten years from the certified date of completion and in the event of his failing to do so within 
the period, to be specified by the GE in his demand aforesaid, the GE may undertake such treatment at 
the risk and cost in all respects of the contractor. 

 
11.17.4  Testing of for water tightness:  Testing shall be done in accordance with IS-3370.  The swimming pool 

and balanceing tank shall be filled with water very slowly upto half the depth and allowed to remain for a 
period of 7 days. Thereafter water shall be filled to the full rated capacity and shall be allowed to remain 
for a further period of 7 days.  The structure should not show any sign of leakage or sweating during this 
period. Any leakage or sweating noticed shall be rectified and complete water tightness shall be achieved 
by the contractor to the entire satisfaction of Engineer-in-Charge.   

 
11.17.5 The swimming pool after completion/testing and till handed over to the department shall be filled with 

water and shall not be kept dry under any circumstances by the contractor. 

 
11.17.6  Necessary records of tests shall be maintained duly signed by the Engineer-in-charge and representative 

of the Contractor and shall be countersigned by the GE. 

 
11.17.7 For the purpose of testing of swimming pool and balancing tank, the water will be supplied by the Dept 

for free of cost. 

 

11.18    Construction of Swimming Pool:  Following important facts shall be carefully followed during 

construction stages of any Swimming Pool: - 

 

11.18.1 The workability of the design mix should be suited to the conditions in the forms and the w/c ratio 

maintained as low as possible for strength requirements. 

 
11.18.2 The use of plasticizers in the mix shall be considered depending upon the levels of supervision 

enforceable at the construction site. 

 
11.18.3   Aim of concreting shall be to achieve an impermeable, dense concrete avoiding any honey-combing. 

 
11.18.4  Entire floor and 30 cm height of wall If swimming pool shall be casted in one go to avoid any 

subsequent leakage problems in the floor. Remaining portion of wall can be cast in subsequent batches 
by allowing proper construction joints. No construction or expansion joints will be permitted in the floor 
pool. 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 272 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

11.18.5  
Apply water swellable-basic polymerhydrophilic waterstops  Super cast SW20 (FOSROC or 
equivalent chemical in Dr. FIXIT or chemical as approved by GE)  add all construction 
joints as per manufacturers instruction irrespective whatever is shown in drg or elsewhere. 
 
11.18.6 
The RCC work of swimming pool shall be followed by two 20 mm thickness screed bed layers for 
making proper leveled surface for tiling. 
 
11.18.7  
Waterproofing treatment for swimming pool construction shall be three fold as follows: - 
 

(i)  
Use admixtures during concreting of floor and walls. 
 
(ii)  
Use waterproofing compounds in the two screed plaster layers. 
 
(iii)  
Use tile adhesive for tiling of the pool. 
 
11.18.8 
Before commencing the work of tiling in the pool, a no-leakage test should be carried out.  The 
fixing of pipes to be embedded in the concrete should be provided with puddle flange or collars 
for ensuring water tightness. 
 
11.18.9 
Following piping materials are recommended for filtration plant and circulation system of 
swimming pools:- 
 

(a) For pump suction piping - HDPE pipes of 10Kg/sq.cm shall be provided for ease of handling, 
laying and maintenance. 
 
(b) For pump to filter section – Mild Steel pipes in heavy gauge shall be provided for ease of 
fabrication and sturdiness. 
 
(c) For filter to pool entry point section – HDPE pipes of 10Kg/sq.cm shall be provided for ease of 
handling, laying and maintenance. 

(d) For pool jet piping which is concealed in concrete, UPVC piping in 10Kg/sq.cm rating shall be 
provided. 
 
11.18.10  
Following valves types and materials are recommended for filtration and circulation system. 
 

(a)   C.I Butterfly Valves with neoprene coating shall be used for pool systems. 

 
(b)   C.I. Diaphragm valves, rubber lined shall be used for filter piping as they are simple and quick 

to repair and maintain. 
 
(c) Polypropylene Valves are corrosion free, easy to handle and require very little maintenance 
and hence shall preferred as first choice. 
 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 273 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

11.19  
PRE ENGINEERED GALVALU M E SHEETS ROOFING & TRUSS    
 
11.19.1  GENERAL: Various component of the steel structure such as steel trusses in roof where shown on 

drawings shall be fabricated, assembled and erected carefully by the contractor. The centerline 
dimensions shall be strictly achieved.  
 
11.19.2 TRUSS: MS angle iron/channel/pipes etc. and other steel members in rafters, purlins and false rafter 

shall be all as shown on drawings. If thickness of gusset plate not indicated on drawings, it shall be 10 
mm thick. Base plate/sole plate and anchor plates etc shall be provided as indicated. Holding down 
bolts shall be made to shape and size as shown. Purlins & wind tie shall be provided as per drawings 
and where numbers of purlins are not indicated on drawings, the same shall be as under:- 
  

(a) For length of sheet not exceeding 1.52m – 2Nos.  
 
(b) For length of sheet exceeding 1.52m but not exceeding 2.40m – 2 Nos. purlin at the ends and one 
additional purlin in the center of sheet.  
 
(c) For length of sheet exceeding 2.40m – 2 Nos. purlins at the ends and minimum 02 Nos. purlins at 
equal spacing in between ends. One additional purlin shall be provided under the eave of roof sheeting 
supported over false rafters and projections.  
 
11.19.3 Irrespective of whatever thickness shown on drawings, the Galvalume sheet shall be of minimum 0.50 

mm thick total coated thickness, 550 Mpa minimum yield strength and shall conform to physical 
specifications of ASTM A-792 or AS-1397 or equivalent. The steel sheet shall be coated with hot dip 
metallic Aluminium zinc Alloy (55% Aluminium, 43.5% Zinc, 1.5% Silicon) coating AZ 150 (minimum 
150 gm/sqm total on both sides). The painting system shall comprise 20 micron colour coating of 
super modified polyster with Silicon on exposed surface over a priming coat of 5 micron and on 
reverse side alkyd back coat of 5 micron over 5 micron primer. The paint shall be of shade as 
approved by GE. The galvalume sheet shall have maximum pitch of 250mm c/c and minimum 28mm 
crest depth in length. The profile shall confirm to IS: 513, 277 and 14246. Fixing shall be carried out 
as per manufacturer’s instructions. Make of Galvalume sheet shall be as specified here in after.  
 
11.19.4 The manufactures test certificate for the chemical and mechanical propertieis of steel must be 

submitted by contractor for approval to GE prior to the installation /fixing and/or claiming payment as 
material laying at site. Contractor shall also submit purchase vouchers from manufacturer or their 
authorized dealer, manufacturer’s test certificate in original before claiming payment for galvalume 
sheets. The manufacture of sheet should submit related documents for expected product service 
performance of pre painted metal sheet as per relevant AS/ASTM.  
 
11.19.5 Manufacture’s recommended installation methodology shall be adopted for installation of roofing 

including profiled sheet, capping, trims, flashing, gutter and all types of accessories considered for 
roofing. Fasteners shall be used for fixing roofing system as per manufacturer’s recommendation. 
  
11.19.6 Base material for coloured galvalume substrate steel sheet shall conform to the specifications of 

relevant ASTM or equivalent.  
 
11.19.7 Roofing sheet shall be crest fixed to purlins with hot dip galvanized self-drilling fasteners with integral 

EPDM washers (one fastener on each crest). Fasteners shall also be provided on side laps @ 500 mm 
c/c (max) for roofing as well as wall cladding. Penetrations and laps in sheet shall be sealed by using 
proper sealant. Profiled HDPE filler shall be provided where ever required to close voids between 
cappings and troughs of the sheet to provide a weather tight exterior. Purlins shall be bolted to top 
flanges of rafters and purlin laps shall be as per relevant IS/ASTM/AS codes as applicable.  
 
11.19.8 All laps of roof panels shall be sealed with a continuous ribbon of tape sealer.  
 
11.19.9 Minimum laps for galvalume steel sheets in roofing and wall cladding shall be:-  

(a) End Laps - 150mm  
(b) Side Laps - One Corrugation.  
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 274 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

11.19.10 Flashing and trims shall be provided at the gable, rack, corners, caves, curves, transition, expansion 

joints, ridge, joints with translucent sheets, framed openings and wherever necessary to provide for 
weather tightness and finished appearance. These shall conform to the physical specifications of 
relevant ASTM/IS specifications and have desired minimum yield strength as specified.  
 
11.19.11 Wall flashing and trims (gable, corner, framed opening, joints with supporting structure of hangar 

door, accessories, etc) are manufactured from same color, finish and thickness as of wall panels and 
as per manufacturer’s recommendation.  
 
11.19.12 Roof flashing and trims (parapet flashing, transition trims, expansion joints trims and ridge caps) are 

manufactured from same color, finish and thickness as of roofing and as per manufacturer’s 
recommendation. 
  
11.19.13 Formed peak panel matching the slope and profile of adjointing panels shall be provided alongwith the 

building ridge and shall be of same color, finish and thickness as of roofing and as per manufacturer’s 
recommendations.  
 
11.19.14 SEALANT. Special grade of silicon sealant non-hardening, neutral cure type of approved make and 

grade shall be applied at all side laps and end laps (with flowable mastic) as per manufacturer’s 
recommendations and approval by Engineer-in-Charge. Sealer for side lap, end laps and self –flashing 
windows shall be two-way self adhesive tapes 6mm wide 5mm thick asbestos fiber filled, pressure 
sensitive. The sealer shall be non-asphaltic, non-shrinking, non-drying and non-toxic and shall have 
superior adhesion to metals, plastics and painted surfaces at temperatures from 50 degree to 104 
degree centigrade.  
 
11.19.15 FASTENERS. Standard fasteners shall be No. 14, Type ‘A’, self –tapping sheet metal screws with metal 

and neoprene washers. All screws shall have hexagonal heads, colour coated to match roof and wall 
sheeting and made of zinc plated /coated steel conforming to relevant IS/ASTM codes. The panel clip 
shall be fastened to structural members with Scrubolt fastener as per manufacturer’s recommendation. 
The size of the fastener shall be calculated as per the design load and approved by concern authority.  
 
11.19.16 RIDGE: Ridge shall be of section shown on drawings and shall be made of pre engineered galvalume 

sheet and shall be fixed to purlins with 8 mm dia GI hook bolts and nuts and bitumen and washers 
which fix the sheet to the purlin as shown on drawings.  
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 275 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
12.      
FLOORING: 

12.1. 
GENERAL:  

12.1.1.  Provision contained in clause 13.25, 13.27, 13.32, 13.39 and 13.40 of MES Schedule   Part I are to be 

adopted for laying floors. 

12.1.2.   Floors shall be laid to levels or to falls as shown on drawings and as directed by Engineer-in-Charge. 

12.1.3.   Floor finish shall be extended over dwarf walls, door openings and other openings. 

12.1.4.   The dividing lines between the floors of different types wherever they so meet between adjoining 

rooms shall be determined on the basis of the finish visible when the doors are closed and the 
applicable finish shall accordingly be provided. 

12.1.5. 
Floor finish over RCC slabs shall be laid all as specified in clause 13.32.5 of MES Schedule Part – I. 

12.1.6. 
Sub floor may not be laid in panels. 

12.1.7.    Floors of types and composition as indicated in the Schedule of finishes and drawings shall be laid as 

specified in Section 13 of MES Schedule Part I and as directed by Engineer-in-Charge. 

12.2.         CEMENT CONCRETE FLOORS:  Provide cement concrete floors over PCC sub-base slabs at locations 

all as shown on drawings and as specified in Schedule of Finishes Drawing. The surface shall be finished 
even and smooth using extra cement. The surface shall be cured efficiently by water ponding as 
directed by Engineer-in-Charge. Glass dividing strips of 3mm thick sheet glass as indicated in drawings 
shall be provided in cement concrete floors except in situations where concrete floor is laid in alternate 
panels. The width of the glass dividing strips shall be 3mm less than the thickness of top finished layer 
of concrete. The top of the strip shall flush with the floor finish. Where thickness of the concrete floor 
finish is more than 50mm, the flooring shall be carried out in alternative panels without using dividing 
strips. Cement concrete flooring cast-in-situ shall be laid in panels and size of panel shall be as specified 
in clause 13.23.1 of MES Schedule Part-I. Unless otherwise specified in drawings PCC finish floor 
topping as in ground floor shall consist of 50mm thick PCC (1:2:4) type B-1 laid over 100mm thick PCC 
(1:4:8) type D-2 over well rammed earth filling and 50mm thick PCC (1:2:4) type B-1 over cement 
slurry @ 3Kg/Sq.metre for otherthan ground floor unless specified otherwise here in after. 

12.2.1 
PCC floors in Parking / Shafts / Hard Standing / Ramps unless otherwise specified elsewhere, shall 
consist of 100mm thick PCC (1:2:4) type B-1 over 75mm thick PCC (1:4:8) type D-2 over well-rammed 
earth. Floor topping shall be chequred finish. 

12.2.2 
RCC SHELVES:   The finished thickness of RCC shelves and platforms where shown of RCC in drawings 
shall be as shown on drawings.  In case the thickness of shelves has not been indicated on drawings it 
shall be as under:-  

(a)  Shelves of wardrobes/cupboards/cabinets in living accommodation etc. - 40mm. 

(b)  Shelves in garages/other situations except in situation in para (a) above - 75mm. 

12.2.3 
MOORUM FILLING:   Moorum filling under floors shall be carried out as per clause 3.21 of MES Schedule 
Part – I. Moorum / Red Bajri Shall be obtained from approved pits and quarries of disintegrated rocks 
containing silicious material and natural mixture of clay of calcareous origin. These shall not contain any 
admixtures of ordinary earth. Red Bajri shall be dark red in colour consisting of coarse grains, free from 
mica and other foreign matter. Size of moorum/Bajri shall vary from dust to 40 mm gauge.  

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 276 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
12.02.3.1 Anything over in size shall be rejected or shall be broken down to bring within 40 mm size. It shall 

conform to or be superior to the samples kept in Garrison Engineer office.  No price adjustment shall be 
made on this account. Sources of good quality moorum shall be approved by GE. After site clearance, 
the levels of filling shall be marked by fixing pegs on both sides at regular intervals as a guide before 
commencement of earthwork. Moorum shall be filled in layers not exceeding 25cm each, watered and 
well rammed. Moorum filling shall be compacted up to 95% modified proctor density. Before placement 
of hard core, plate load tests shall be conducted on the moorum filling. The bulk modulus of soil 
prepared shall not be less than 50,000 KN/Cu.m.  Testing charges shall be born by the contractor.   

12.2.4  
Sand for cushioning shall be as per clause 3.22 of MES Schedule Part – I. 

12.2.5 
Hard core and plain cement concrete shall be all as specified hereinbefore. 

12.3 
REINFORCED CEMENT CONCRETE FLOOR:  Provide Reinforced Cement Concrete with  M-40 
Design Mix Concrete or Ready Mix Concrete [RMC]  all as specified hereinbefore. RCC floor shall 
be laid over PCC sub-base, hardcore and Moorum filling as specified in Drawing and location of sand 
cushioning is tentative and shall be as directed by GE, depending upon water table level. Method of 
laying RCC in flooring shall be of VDF [Vaccume Dewater Flooring] system. 

12.4. 
GREEN MARBLE STONE FLOORING:  Mirror polished Green marble flooring shall be laid where 
shown in schedule of finishes/drawings. The size of the marble slab in flooring shall be minimum 
1200mm X 600mm. The slabs shall be machine cut and shall be of uniform colour as approved by GE. 
The thickness of Green marble stone shall be 18 to 20mm thick.  The green marble slab shall be set 
and jointed in neat cement slurry @ 3 Kg/Sq.m  laid over 20mm thick screed in CM [1:4] over 25mm 
thick PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 over 75mm thick PCC [1:4:8], Type D–2 sub base over 100mm thick hard 
core over rammed earth in Ground Floor and laid over 20mm thick screed in CM [1:4] over 25mm thick 
PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 laid over RCC Slab  and pointed in white cement with pigments or coloured cement 
to match the green marble slab. The grinding & polishing shall be done after laying of slabs to mirror 
polish [Tin oxide polish]. 

12.5. 
GRANITE SLAB FLOORING / DADO / WALL CLADDING:  The granite slabs shall be of best quality 
and of colour and size as approved by the GE or as specified in Schedule of Finishes. The thickness of 
the slabs shall be 18 to 20mm unless otherwise specified in Schedule of Finishes with permissible 
tolerance of +/-3%. The stone shall be hard, durable, sound, tough, and regular in shape, uniform in 
colour and free from soft veins, cracks, flaws, decay and weathering. The contractor shall get samples 
of granite slabs/ tiles approved by the GE for their colour. Every slab/core shall be machine cut to the 
required size and shape. Laying and polishing shall be carried out all as specified in clauses 6.20.5 to 
6.20.8 of MES Schedule Part – I. 
 
12.6. 
COLOURED NON SKID CERAMIC TILE FLOORING:  Provide  COLOURED  non skid ceramic tile 
flooring at locations all as specified in schedule of finishes Drawings. Non-skid ceramic tiles shall be flat, 
true to shape, sound and free from flaws and other manufacturing defects. Ceramic tiles shall conform 
to IS – 15622, Grade B–I[a] for Toilets and B–I[b] for other locations for floor tiles and Grade B–III for 
wall tiles and shall be of first quality. Unless otherwise specified in drawing the size of the tiles shall be 
450x450x 7 to 8mm thick. The shade / pattern / design of the tiles shall be as approved by GE. The 
tiles shall be set, jointed in neat cement slurry and pointed flush in white cement mixed with pigment to 
match the colour of tile wherever applicable and  laid over 15mm thick screed in CM [1:4] over 20mm 
thick PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 over 75mm thick PCC [1:4:8], Type D–2 sub base over 100mm thick hard 
core over rammed earth in Ground Floor and laid over 15mm thick screed in CM [1:4] over 20mm thick 
PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 laid over RCC Slab.  The tiles shall be laid as per pattern described by GE. The 
workmanship shall be all as specified in clause No.13.40.2 of MES Schedule Part – I. The top surface of 
RCC slab shall be cleaned with hard wire brush and cement slurry @ 1.2 KG / Sq.m shall be applied 
before laying the floor. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 277 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
12.7. 
COLOURED GLAZED 
CERAMIC TILE DADO/SKIRTING:  Coloured glazed ceramic tiles 
dado/skirting shall be all as mentioned in schedule of finishes Drawings.  The size of tile shall be as 
mentioned in Drawings, Grade B-III. The tile shall be plain, coloured, Type B-III, Grade-I quality and 
shall conform to IS – 15622 and shall be got approved by the GE. The tile shall be set over cement 
screed / backing, jointed in neat cement slurry and pointed with white cement mixed with pigment, to 
match the colour of the tile. The dado thickness projecting from the rendered wall surface shall be 
flushed using cement mortar 1:3. The top level of the flushed surface shall be finished to a true line as 
directed. The height of dado shall be as specified in drawings as per location. Unless not specified in 
drawings the height of dado shall be 1.50M for W/C, and shall be 2.10 M for bathrooms.    
 
12.8. 
CHEQUERED CEMENT CONCRETE TILES:  Chequered  cement  concrete tiles be all as mentioned in 
Drawings . Unless otherwise shown on drawings the size of chequred cement concrete tiles shall be 
200mm x 200mm x 20 to 25mm thick. The colour and pattern of the tile shall be all as approve by GE. 
The tiles shall be bedded, jointed and pointed with coloured cement to match the colour of tiles,  laid 
over 15mm thick screed in CM [1:6] over 20mm thick PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 over 75mm thick PCC 
[1:4:8], Type D–2 sub base over rammed earth in Ground Floor and laid over 15mm thick screed in CM 
[1:4] over 20mm thick PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 laid over RCC Slab . 

12.9. 
VITRIFIED TILE FLOORING:  Coloured Vitrified tiles of size 600X600X 9 to 10mm for flooring shall be 
of the premium quality hard, sound, dense,  Double Charged  and homogenous in texture, free from 
defects, machine cut and factory mirror polished, Mohr hardness shall not be less than 7 and 
conforming to relevant IS. The tiles are classified under group B1a of the international Standard for 
Ceramic Tiles ISO – 13006 and European Standard EN: 176. Tiles shall be  laid over 15mm thick screed 
in CM [1:4] over 20mm thick PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 over 75mm thick PCC [1:4:8], Type D–2 sub base 
over 100mm thick hard core over rammed earth in Ground Floor and laid over 15mm thick screed in CM 
[1:4] over 20mm thick PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 laid over RCC Slab.  The shade and the size shall be as 
approved by GE. The tiles shall be laid with a border of different dark shade to the width as directed by 
the GE. Joints shall be pointed flush using polymer based cementatious tiling joint filler to match the 
shade of the tile.  

12.10    CERAMIC TILE FLOORING:   Provide ceramic tile flooring at locations all as shown on drawings and as 

specified in schedule of finishes drawing. Unless otherwise specified in drawing the size of the tiles shall 
be 450x450x 7 to 8mm thick. The tiles shall be plain, first quality, Grade B-I[a], and shall confirm to 
relevant IS-15622. The shade shall be as approved by GE. S et,   jointed in neat cement slurry and 
pointed flush in coloured cement to match, laid over 15mm thick screed in CM [1:4] laid over 20mm 
thick PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 over 75mm thick PCC [1:4:8], Type D–2 sub base over 100mm thick hard 
core over rammed earth in Ground Floor and laid over 15mm thick screed in CM [1:4] over 20mm thick 
PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 laid over RCC Slab.  The tiles shall be laid as per pattern described by GE, set, 
jointed in cement slurry. Joints shall be pointed flush in white cement mixed with pigment to match the 
colour of tile wherever applicable. The workmanship shall be all as specified in clause No.13.40.2 of 
MES Schedule Part I. 

12.11      KOTA STONE FLOORING & SKIRTING / DADO   

 

12.11.1   Kota stone shall be 18-20mm thick and Quality of Kota green Stone shall be as per Clause 13.47.1 of 

MES Standard Schedule, Part-I. Dressing of stone shall be done as per Clause 13.47.2. Kota stone shall 
be of size 55cm x 55cm with tolerance plus/minus 5% and 18mm to 20mm thick. Smaller sizes may be 
adopted to accommodate within the floor dimensions keeping as near as possible. 

12.11.2 
Kota stone shall be laid as defined in Clause 13.47.3 of MES Schedule, Part-I. In case of flooring on 
ground floor, sub base shall consist of 75mm thick PCC 1:4:8, type D-2. Bedding mortar (Screed) shall 
be in cement mortar (1:4) and thickness of screed shall be 20mm average. In case of providing Kota 
stone flooring on floor other than ground floor, stone shall be laid over cement screed in cement mortar 
(1:4), 20mm thick (average thickness) over 20mm thick PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 laid over RCC Slab. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 278 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
12.11.3 
White Marble border with white marble 18 to 20 mm thick Abu white “Makrana”, 15cm wide shall be 
provided as specified in Schedule of Finishes. 

12.11.4 
Marble topping on shelve wherever shown on drawing shall be 18 to 20mm thick ABU white 
“Makrana” laid over 10mm thick cement mortar (1:3) including grinding and Bee-Wax polishing all as 
specified in SSR Part-I, 1991 Specifications. 

12.11.5 
CURING, POLISHING & FINISHING:  -  Refer clause 13.47.4 of MES Schedule Part-I. 

12.11.6 
Thickness of Kota stone in skirting and dado and risers of steps shall be 15mm. It shall be laid over a 
layer of 10mm thick screed in cement mortar (1:3). Curing, polishing and finishing shall be as for 
floors mentioned above. Unlessotherwise specified in drawing height of skirting shall be 10cm. In 
case of steps (treads & risers), Kota green stone shall be in a single piece to full length & width of 
riser & tread. The nosing of tread shall be provided with two parallel grooves of 3mm    3mm as 
shown on drawings to be provided. 

 12.12         GLASS MOSAIC TILES FOR SWIMMING POOL FLOOR AND WALLS : Irrespective of what is 

shown on drawings (Schedule of finishes or any other drawing) the glass mosaic tiles shall be of size 
20mm X 20mm and of thickness 4mm of model Vitreo of shade 122-V I  and 130-V II  (combination of 
light and Dark blue colour) in make “ Palladio ” or equivalent model & shade in make “ Italica/ Pino 
/ Accura ” as approved by GE. Tiles shall be fixed using Tile adhesive and tile grout as per 
manufacturer’s 
instructions. 
Note: 
Make 
of 
Wall 
tiles 
of 
swimming 
pool: 
PINO/PALLADIO/ACCURA/ITALICA. The samples for the same are to be provided by GE to the user. 

12.12.1 
FIXING TILES INTERNALLY (SWIMMING POOL /DIVING POOL) : Provide 10mm thick plaster 
on wall and 20mm screed on base slab in flooring in CM (1:3) with microsilica PP fibre at 2% by 
weight of cement alongwith detachment DM as per manufacturerer’s instructions. Mosaic tiles of 
approved makes for floors shall be of size 200mm x 200 x 6-7mm thick shall be provided to floor of 
swimming pool/diving pool. The tiles shall be fixed in tile adhesive (Zentrival PL 3mm thick layer) and 
grout the joints with file grout (Zentrival PM) of M/s MC-Douchemic or equivalent as per 
manufacturer’s instructions and all as per IS-6494-1988 and IS:3370. Whether shown on drawings or 
not, water proofing treatment as described above shall be provided at site and contractor’s quoted 
rate shall be deemed to include for the above provision. 

12.12.2 
Non-skid (Finger Grip Tiles):  Provide Non-skid (Finger grip tiles) at locations shown in the schedule 
of finishes drawing and all as specified in schedule of finishes drawing. The thickness of tile 20mm and 
shall be as indicated in schedule of finishes.  The tiles shall be plain, first quality, Grade B II A, and shall 
conform to relevant IS. The shade shall be as indicated in the schedule of finishes drawing/as approved 
by GE. The screed for laying the tiles shall be 15 mm thick in cement mortar [1:4]. The tiles shall be 
laid as per pattern described by GE, set, jointed in cement slurry. Joints shall be pointed flush in white 
cement mixed with pigment to match the colour of tile wherever applicable. The workmanship shall be 
all as specified in clause No.13.40.2 of MES Schedule Part I.  

12.12.3 
DESIGNER POLISHED CHEQUERED CEMENT CONCRETE TILES: Pre-cast Designer Chequered PCC tiles 
in floors with 100% grey cement and pigments shall be provided wherever indicated in drawings. The 
tiles shall be of size 300 X 300 X 20-25mm thick and the tiles shall comply the requirement of clause 
13.17 of MES Schedule Part – I. Workmanship shall be all as specified in Clause 13.25 & 13.39 of MES 
Schedule Part – I. Tiles shall be laid over screed bed in cement sand mortar as specified in Schedule of 
finishes. Tiles shall be set, jointed and pointed in neat cement slurry of colour to match the tiles. The 
tiles shall confirm to IS – 13801, Specification for Chequered Cement Concrete Tiles except for the wear 
quality and when tested in the manner specified in clause 11.6 of the same IS. The wear for tiles shall 
not exceed the following values: [a] Average wear: 2mm, [b] Wear on individual specimen: 2.5mm 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 279 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
12.13.        INTERLOCKING TYPE PAVER BLOCK.  

12.13.1 
The paver block shall be as mentioned in as shown on drawing, reflective and inter locking type and 
shall be factory made. The paver block shall be brought from the manufacturer mentioned hereinafter 
and as approved by the GE. Paver blocks shall be conforming to IS 15658-2006. Shade of coloured tiles 
wherever specified shall be as directed by the GE. 

12.13.2 
Material used for preparation of paver block shall be as per clause 4 of IS: 15658-2006 

 12.13.3 The grade and strength of paver blocks shall be as follows: 
 

Sl 
No 

Grade of 

Paver 
blocks 

Specified 
Compressive 

strength at 
28days N/mm² 

Traffic 
Category 

Recommended 
Minimum Paver 
Block Thickness 

Traffic Examples of Application 

(a)
M-30 
30 
Non-
traffic 

50 
Building premises, monument premises, 
landscapes, 
public 
gardens/ 
parks, 
domestic 
drives, 
paths 
and 
patios, 
embankment slopes, sand stabilization 
area etc 

(b)
M-35 
35 
Light-
traffic 

60 
Pedestrian plazas, shopping complexes 
ramps, car parks, office driveways, 
housing colonies, office complexes, rural 
roads with low volume traffic, farm 
houses, beach sites, tourist resorts local 
authority footways, residential roads etc. 

(c)
M-40 
40 
Medium-

traffic 

80 
City streets, small and medium market 
roads, low volume roads, utility cuts on 
a r terial  r oa d  etc 
(d)
M-50 
50 
Heavy-

traffic 

100 
Bus 
terminals, 
industrial 
complexes, 
mandi houses, roads on expansive soils, 
factory floor, service stations, industrial 
pa vem ents  e t c  
(e)
 
 

M-55 
55 
Very 
heavy-

traffic 

120 
Container terminals, ports, docks yards, 
mine access roads, bulk cargo handling 
areas, airport pavements etc. 
Notes: 

(i)   
Non-traffic areas are defining as areas where no vehicular traffic occurs. 

(ii) 
 Light-traffic is defined as a daily traffic upto 150 commercial vehicles exceeding 30kN laden weight, or 
an equivalent upto 0.5 million standard axles (MSA) for a design life of 20years (A standard axles is 
defined as a single axle load of 81.6kN). 

(iii)  
Medium traffic is defined as a daily traffic of 150-450 commercial vehicles exceeding 30kN laden weight 
or an equivalent of 0.5 to 2.0 MSA for a design life of 20 years. 

(iv)  
Heavy traffic is defined as a daily traffic of 450 to 1500 commercial vehicles exceeding 30kN laden 
weight,  or an equivalent of 2.0 to 5.0 MSA for a design life of 20years. 

(v)  
Very heavy-traffic is defined as a daily traffic of more than 1 500 commercial vehicles exceeding 30kN 
laden weight, or an equivalent of more than 5.0 MSA for a design life of 20years. 

12.13.4   Water absorption - The average water absorption shall not more than 6% and for individual samples 

not more than 7% when tested as per IS 15658. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 280 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
12.13.5   Markings - The tiles shall be purchased from an approved manufacturer and shall have the markings as 

per clause 10 of IS 15658 embossed either on the sides or bottom. 

12.13.6    Testing - The tiles shall be tested for the following under laid requirements as per testing procedure 

specified in IS 15658.  The cost of samples and cost of testing shall be borne by the Contractor. 

 (a)  Dimensions and tolerance -Table 2 of IS 15658: 2006 shall be referred 

 
 
(b)  Thickness of the wearing layer-Table 2 of IS 15658: 2006 shall be referred 

 
 
(c)  Water absorption-Clause 6.2.4 of IS 15658: 2006 shall be referred 

 
 
(d)  Compressive strength 
-Clause 6.2.5 of IS 15658: 2006 shall be referred 

 
 
(e)  Abrasion resistance - Clause 6.2.6 IS 15658: 2006 shall be referred 

 
 
(f)  Tensile splitting strength-Clause 6.3.1 of IS 15658: 2006 shall be referred 

 
 
(e)  Flexural strength / Breaking load-Clause 6.3.2 IS 15658: 2006 shall be referred 

12.13.7   Sampling - The sampling of the blocks for testing shall be done as per clause 8 of IS 15658 : 2006 & 

sampling requirements given in Table 4 of IS 15658-2006. The numbers given there in shall be sampled 
out of each consignment of blocks supplied at a time, not exceeding 25000 blocks or part thereof. 

12.13.8  However one set of samples as per Table 4 shall be obtained from the manufacturer from where the 

blocks are intended to be procured and submitted to the GE for testing and approval. The cost of 
samples and cost of testing shall be borne by the Contractor. 

12.14. 
SKIRTING: 

12.14.1.  CEMENT PLASTER SKIRTING:  Provide cement plaster skirting at locations shown in Schedule of 

finishes drawing. Skirting shall be of 5mm thick in cement mortar [1:3] over 10 mm thick rendering in 
cement mortar [1:6], unless otherwise specified on drawings the height of skirting shall be 100mm.  
Surface shall be finished even and smooth with steel trowel using extra cement.  

12.14.2.  NON SKID CERAMIC TILE SKIRTING:  Provide coloured glazed ceramic tile skirting at locations 

shown in Schedule of finishes drawing over 10 mm thick screed in cement mortar [1:3].  Tiles shall be 
all as specified here-in-before for non-skid ceramic tile flooring.  Tiles shall be set and jointed in cement 
slurry.  Joints shall be pointed flush with white cement mixed with pigment to match the color of tile, 
unless otherwise specified on drawings the height of skirting shall be 100mm.  

 12.14.3.  KOTA STONE SKIRTING:  Provide kota stone skirting at locations shown in Schedule of finishes 

drawing over 10mm thick screed in cement mortar [1:3].  Stone shall be all as specified here-in-before 
for kota stone flooring, unless otherwise specified on drawings the height of skirting shall be 100mm.    

12.14.4.  GLAZED CERAMIC TILE DADO / SKIRTING:   

12.14.4.1  Provide glazed ceramic tile dado at locations all as shown in schedule of finishes drawing. The size of 

tile shall be 400mm x 300mm or 450mm x 300mm [or nearest size] and 7-8mm thick grade B-III. The 
tile shall be plain, coloured and designed, Type B-III, Grade-I quality and shall be got approved by the 
GE. The tile shall be set over cement screed 10 mm thick in cement mortar [1:3], jointed in neat 
cement slurry and pointed with white cement mixed with pigment, to match the colour of the tile. The 
height of dado shall be as shown in the drawing. The dado shall be provided all round, irrespective of 
what is shown in the drawing. Where not indicated in the drawing the height of dado shall be 1.50M for 
W/C, and shall be 2.1M for bathrooms and unless otherwise specified on drawings the height of skirting 
shall be 100mm   


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 281 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
12.14.14.2. The dado thickness projecting from the rendered wall surface shall be flushed using cement mortar 

1:6. The top level of the flushed surface shall be finished to a true line as directed by the Engineer-in-
charge. 

12.14.5       STAIR CASES      

12.14.5.1   Provide RCC staircases all as shown in drawings. Railing shall be of stainless steel as shown on 

drawing. The vertical pipes and hand rail shall be of stainless steel, standard quality of grade SS – 
304, polish finish of wall thickness 1.5 mm and of size as shown on drawings. 

12.14.5.2   Stair case shall be provided with 18-20mm thick Green Marble slabs laid over 20mm thick screed bed 

in CM 1:6 over 25mm thick PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 laid over sub base/over well rammed earth. Treads 
of steps & landing of stair case shall be provided with Green Marble 18 to 20mm thick machine cut in 
one piece set over 20mm thick CM (1:6). Risers shall be provided with Green Marbles 18 to 20mm 
thick machine cut in one piece set over 10 mm thick CM (1:3). Soffit of RCC stair case shall be treated 
with 3 coats of white wash all as specified hereinbefore. Treads shall be bull Nosed. 

12.15  
GRANITE STONE CLADDING: Provide 18 to 20mm thick polished granite stone slabs cladding at 
locations as shown in drawings. Granite stone slabs shall be laid over 10mm thick plaster of cement 
and sand mortar 1:3. The colour and size of the stone shall be as approved by GE. 
 
12.16  
DECORATIVE CERAMIC WALL TILE CLADDING: Provide 6-8mm thick decorative ceramic wall tiles 
cladding at locations as shown in drawings. Decorative wall tiles shall be laid over 10mm thick plaster of 
cement and sand mortar 1:4. The colour and size of the tiles shall be as approved by GE. 

 

12.17.  ANTI SKID TILE FLOORING : Provide Anti skid ceramic tile flooring at locations all as shown on 

drawings and as specified in schedule of finishes drawing. Irrespective of what is mentioned in schedule 
of finishes, the size of the tiles shall be 240mm x 115mm (Standard)/ 244mm X 119mm [Anti slip/Finger 
Grip with safety marking/Grooved Anti-Slip tile with safety Marking] as indicated on drawing. The tiles 
shall be Hugely versatile porcelain, low water absorption rate, no colour fading, Anti-slip surfaces that 
comply with the international norms, highly resistant to scratch, crack, marks, wear, chemical agents and 
shall conform to relevant IS. The shade shall be as approved by GE as per the location wise.  The screed 
for laying the tiles shall be 15mm thick in cement mortar [1:4]. The tiles shall be laid as per pattern 
described by GE, set, jointed in cement slurry. Joints shall be pointed flush in white cement mixed with 
pigment to match the colour of tile wherever applicable. The workmanship shall be all as specified in 
clause No.13.40.2 of MES Schedule Part I.  

12.18 
ACID PROOF TILE FACING:  Where indicated provide Acid Proof tiles in flooring. Tiles shall be 15mm 
thick and size not exceeding 200mm    200mm. Tiles shall be set, jointed and pointed in chemical 
resistant mortar as per manufacturer’s instructions over primed bituminous primer conforming to IS-3824 
@ 1.70 Kg/Square metre of the area over 40mm thick PCC (1:2:4) type B-1 laid over 75mm thick PCC 
(1:4:8) type D-2 over well rammed earth/compacted earth. Material and workmanship shall conform to 
Clause 13.22 and 13.46 of SSR Part-I. Tiles shall be ceramic, unglazed, vitreous tiles conforming to IS-
4457. Tiles shall withstand 98% concentrated Sulfuric Acid. Tiles shall be square in size except those 
provided at ends where rectangular tiles of suitable size may be used. The compressive strength shall be 
700 Kg. per Sq Cm. The loss in weight when tested for acid resistance shall not exceed 1.50 percent.  
 
12.18.1 Where indicated provide acid proof tiles in skirting/dado. The tiles shall be 12mm thick set, jointed and 

pointed with chemical resistant mortar as recommended by the manufacturer. 

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 282 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
12.19 
STONE SETT FLOORING:  Where indicated and shown on drawings, stone sett flooring shall be 
provided. Stones for setts shall be of the best quality, granite/trap stones shall be obtained from the 
approved quarries as indicated. Use of sedimentary stone shall not be permitted. Provide 150mm deep 
stone sett flooring with stone setts of size 200mm to 250mm long, 150mm to 200mm wide and sides 
dressed bedded in 20mm thick cement mortar (1:3), joints grouted in cement mortar (1:2) with an 
admixture of metallic floor hardner 5% by weight of cement or as recommended by the manufacturer of 
the hardner and struck flush as the work proceeds laid over rammed 100mm thick PCC M-20 laid over 
225mm thick stone soling (Consolidated thickness) stones broken to sizes ranging from 100mm to 50mm) 
laid over rammed earth. Stone sett flooring shall be provided as specified in Clause 13.28 and 13.29 of 
SSR (1991) Part-I. Metallic hardeners in the topping of floors and paving for increasing abrasion 
resistance shall be Ironite, Hardonate, Ferronite or other equal and approved metallic floor hardeners. 

12.20 
WOODEN FLOORING : Laminate wooden floors shall be provided as detailed in the drawings. Only 
selected quality of boards of uniform width shall be used. Floor boards shall be 40mm in thickness as 
indicated and shall not be less than 10 cm nor more than 15 cm, in width. The same width of boarding 
shall be maintained throughout the floor except where the width of the room is not an exact multiple of 
the boards; in which case the difference shall be equally adjusted between the two end boards adjacent 
to walls. The maximum length of the boards shall be restricted to 3 meters. The minimum length of board 
shall be such that the boards rest at least on three supports but in no case it shall be less than 2 metres. 
Wooden flooring shall be provided as specified in Clause 7.25 of SSR (1991) Part-I. 

12.21 
IRONITE FLOORING : Provide Ironite flooring at locations all as shown on drawings and as specified in 
schedule of finishes drawing. Irrespective of what is mentioned in schedule of finishes, the flooring shall 
consist of 20mm floor finish with hardonite / ironite treated with sodium silicate over 30mm thick 
granolithic layer as per cluse No. 13.34 & 13.35 of MES Schedule Part I over 200mm thick PCC M20 base 
course over 100mm thick PCC 1:4:8 type D2 laid over 250mm thick granular sub base over 150mm thik 
sand layer mixed with 3% of cement over well rammed earth.   

12.22 
MAPLE FLOORING FOR GYMNASIUM HALL  

12.22.1 SURFACE BOARD: - 1st class canadian maple wood sports flooring labo sports test certified & EN 14904 

certified finished with 21mm thick, 57 to 83mm wide and in random length in tongue and groove shape. 
The edges of the boards will have a finger lock groove and the bottom side with air pass groove and 
treated with special anti-termite and water-resistant lacquer.  

12.22.2 UNDER FRAME: - made of spruce pine fir (spf) quality canadian pine wood runners of 70 mm x 45 mm, 

treated with anti-termite solution and fixed on the bottom side with 19 mm thick EPDM air cushioned 
pads, stappled through the two wings at 350 mm x 350 mm.  

12.22.3 INSTALLATION: - IPS subfloor (Indian patent stone: 100mm thick PCC: 1:4:8 type D2) treated with a 

vapour barrier to be placed on the levelled IPS sub-floor before laying the under frame. The runners 
having air cushion pads to be placed on the vapour barrier in perfect level at 350 mm spacing in one 
direction. The surface board to be screwed to the runner through the tongue only and will lock the 
screwed tongue by the groove of adjoining board. Ends of the boards will be locked by inserting the 
wooden fingers through the edge grooves and fixed with suitable adhesives. An expansion gap of 8 to 10 
mm will be left open between the wooden flooring and the surrounding tiled area / walls.  

12.22.4 FINISHING: After installation the floor will be machine sanded in uniform level and finished with chimiver 

panseri spa made in italy din & fiba approved eco primer 2k sports & eco star 2 k sports water based 
polyurethane lacquer water based polyurethane polish. Laying of flooring will be done through authorised 
applicant of company. Make: Apex sport surface, Aeroflex, Saint Gobain as approved by GE. 

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 283 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
12.23 
CEMENT CONCRETE TILES:  Cement concrete tiles be all as mentioned in Drawings. Unless otherwise 
shown on drawings the size of cement concrete tiles shall be 300mm x 300mm x 7-8mm thick. The colour 
and pattern of the tile shall be all as approve by GE. The tiles shall be bedded, jointed and pointed with 
coloured cement to match the colour of tiles,  laid over 15mm thick screed in CM [1:4] over 20mm thick 
PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 over 75mm thick PCC [1:4:8], Type D–2 sub base over rammed earth in Ground 
Floor and laid over 15mm thick screed in CM [1:4] over 20mm thick PCC 1:2:4, Type B-0 laid over RCC 
Slab . 

12.24 
RUBBER FLOORING:  Provide Rubber flooring at locations all as shown on drawings and as specified in 
schedule of finishes drawing. Irrespective of what is mentioned in schedule of finishes, the flooring shall 
consist of 20mm thick Rubber sheet or tiles for flooring laid over 50mm thick PCC 1:2:4 type B1 over well 
rammed surface, shall conform to IS 809-1992. The rubber flooring shall be with fabric backing or fabric 
insert with topping type ‘B’ ribbed or fluted, and of colour as directed as per cluse No. 13.20 of MES 
Schedule Part I. The flooring shall be fixed with adhesive as recommended by the manufacturer, the 
manufacturer shall also indicate the precautions to be taken while using the adhesive. The work shall be 
executed by the rep of manufacturer. 

12.25 
SYNTHIC FLOORING:  Provide Synthic flooring at locations all as shown on drawings and as specified in 
schedule of finishes drawing. Irrespective of what is mentioned in schedule of finishes, the flooring shall 
consist of 4mm thick synthic sheet fixed with adhesive as recommended by the manufacturer, the 
manufacturer shall also indicate the precautions to be taken while using the adhesive. The work shall be 
executed by the rep of manufacturer. The synthic flooring shall be laid over concrete surface as specified 
in in schedule of finishes drawings. 

12.25 
ELECTRO STATIC DISCHARGE FLOORING (ESD):  Electro static discharge flooring treatment for 
concrete surfaces shall be done as per instructions of Engineer-in-Charge. The concrete thus laid shall be 
vibrated with poker vibrator. During poker vibration, proper compaction of coarse aggregate fine 
aggregate, and cement shall be obtained. The surface will then be finished in level with the help of 
surface vibrator to give a dense level surface of concrete. The top surface after removal of mat shall be 
floated with a mechanical skim floater with trowelling blade to enable the top surface to grind and give a 
uniform water resistance surface on top. Under no circumstances neat cement be sprinkled directly on 
concrete surface to absorb bleed water as surface scaling may occur later. Similarly, water should not be 
applied between trowelling operations as it may cause surface weakness. Minimum two passes shall be 
carried out. The surface shall then be watered and cured as per clause 13.32.10 of MES Schedule Part I. 

12.26 
ACRONYM EPDM:  Acronym EPDM rubber sheet shall be laid over concrete surface with adhesive as 
recommended by the manufacturer, the manufacturer shall also indicate the precautions to be taken 
while using the adhesive. The work shall be executed by the rep of manufacturer. The flooring shall be 
laid over concrete surface as specified in in schedule of finishes drawings. 

 

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 284 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
13.           PLASTERING AND POINTING: 

13.1     
Sand shall be fine and conform to the requirement of IS-1342 free from deleterious materials. 

13.2    
Water used for mixing and curing shall be clean free from deleterious matter.  Water fit for drinking is 
normally suitable. 

13.3 
PREPARATION OF BACKGROUND FOR APPLICATION OF PLASTER:  

13.3.1  
All dust and foreign matter on surfaces of masonry and latency on the concrete surfaces shall be 
removed by watering or brushing as required.  In case background contains solvable salts, particularly 
Sulphate, plastering shall not be done until the efflorescence of the salts is completed. 

13.4    
Joints in masonry shall be raked to a depth of 10mm as the work proceeds. Local projections beyond 
the general wall face shall be trimmed off to avoid variance in thickness of plaster. 

13.5   
For smooth surfaces of concrete it shall be roughened by wire brushing or hacking and hammering if 
surface is hard.  All projecting burrs shall be removed. The surfaces shall be scrubbed by wire brushes, 
Further pock marks 3mm deep at spacing of 50 mm shall be done. 

13.6    
Adequate drying intervals shall be allowed between erection and plastering to bring the surface suitable 
for suction adjustment. High rate of suction causes plaster weak, porous and friable. The wall surface 
shall be damped evenly before plastering dry spot shall be moistened. Excess water will lead to failure 
of bond between plaster and background. 

13.7    
Dubbing out and rendering coat shall be same type and mix and dubbing coat shall be executed along 
with rendering coat. 

13.8     
Plastering shall not be done till doorframes are firmly fixed.  Provide protection to fittings against splash 
of plaster, however if any plaster of mortar is noticed, it shall be cleaned off immediately. 

13.9      Screed, 5 cm x 5 cm shall be laid vertically and horizontally not more than 2 m Apart to serve as guide 

in bringing the work to an even surface. 

13.10   
In case of 2 coats plaster work, 1st coat shall be allowed to the materially completed before 2nd coat is 
applied. 

13.11   
The finished work of plastering shall not show more than 4mm projection when checked with straight 
edge of 2m length placed over it. 

13.12    In one coat plaster the mortar shall be firmly well pressed into the joints and into depressions of 

masonry walls for obtaining permanent bond and shall be laid little more than the required and the 
surfaces shall be leveled with wooden float. On concrete walls rendering shall be dashed on roughened 
surfaces to ensure adequate bond using strong whipping motion at right angle to face of wall. 

 13.13    The plastered surface shall be finished even and fair without using extra cement unless stated 

otherwise hereinafter. 

 13.14    In case of two coat work, before the first coat work is hardened shall be scored to provide key for 2nd 

coat.  The rendering coat shall be kept damp for 2 days. 

13.15     CURING:  Each coat of rendering shall be kept damp continuously for 2 days.  Moistening shall 

commence after plaster is sufficiently hardened. 

13.16 
PLASTERING [INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL]: 

13.16.1  
All the internal surfaces of walls/concrete [as specified] hereinbefore in buildings/ structures of 
Schedule “A” Part I shall be rendered 15mm thick in CM [1:6] surface finished even and smooth 
without using extra cement. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 285 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
13.16.2 
Irrespective of what is indicated in Schedule of finishes drawing all the external surfaces of 
walls/concrete shall be rendered with 15mm thick plaster in two coats. First coat shall be 10mm thick 
in cement-sand mortar 1:6 and the second coat shall be 5mm thick in cement sand mortar1:4, mixed 
with anti algae waterproofing compound conforming to IS 2645 as per manufacturer’s instructions 
with minimum @2.0% of weight of cement. The surface shall be finished fair and even. External 
plastering shall be started from 15cm below ground level/plinth protection wherever applicable. 

13.16.3  
All the soffits / ceilings of walls/concrete [as specified] hereinbefore in buildings/ structures of 
Schedule “A” Part I shall be rendered 5mm thick in CM [1:3] surface finished even and smooth 
without using extra cement. 

13.7 
The junction between column/beam/slab and wall shall be provided with chicken wire mesh before 
executing the plastering work. Groves shall be provided wherever required as directed by Engineer-in-
Charge.  

 

14.     
SURFACE FINISHES TO BUILDINGS:  

14.1   
WHITE [LIME] WASHING : Lime used for white washing shall be freshly burnt fat lime [Class `C`] 
white in colour, conforming to IS-712-1984. Three coats of white wash shall be provided to walls all 
as specified in clause 15.12 of MES Schedule Part – I. Skirting and dado are not to be white washed.  
Unless otherwise shown in Schedule of finish Drg the ceiling is to be treated with 3 coats of white 
wash all as specified herein above.   

14.2. 
ACRYLIC EMULSION DISTEMPER:  Wherever indicated in Schedule of finishes drawings provide 
ACRYLIC emulsion /distemper two coats over a coat of alkali resistant primer and over two coats of 
wall care putty. Distemper, oil emulsion shall conform to IS 428-1969. Preparation of surfaces 
application of primer and distemper shall be in accordance with clauses specified in MES schedule 
part I. Oil emulsion distemper shall be of any of the makes mentioned hereinafter. Wherever oil 
bound distemper is shown in schedule of finishes drawing, acrylic emulsion distemper shall be 
provided with specification stated above. 

14.3      
EXTERNAL WEATHER PROOF PAINT:  

14.3.1 
GENERAL:  

14.3.1.1 
Unless samples of all materials are approved, the contractor will not be allowed to commence the 
work. Painting shall be carried out by heavy duty air less spray painting machine by experienced 
painter.    

14.3.2  
MATERIALS:  

14.3.2.1  
Paint shall be weather proof Acrylic emulsion, exterior grade [100%acrylic] premium quality having 
VOC less than 50grms/Ltr. Paint shall be procured from any of the makes listed hereinafter  

14.3.2.2  
Shade(s) of the paint shall be as approved by GE. 

14.3.2.3  
Primer shall be water based acrylic suitable for exteriors as per manufacturer’s instructions.  Primer 
shall be of same make as of paint. 

14.3.2.4 
The paint and primer shall be brought in manufacturer’s sealed containers only by the contractor duly 
marked with batch number from the manufacturer. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 286 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
14.3.2.5 
The contractor shall produce manufacturers test certificate along with purchase voucher in original for 
the paint and primer brought to site before claiming payment for the same Purchase voucher of paint 
and primer shall contain the complete description of material, batch No., net weight, test certification 
No., quantity in each package, No. of packages etc., The quantity of material brought at site 
indicating No. of packages, quantity in each package, batch No., purchase voucher number, test 
certification number, date of manufacturing, date of expiry etc., shall be entered in MB as “Not to be 
Abstracted “ and shall be signed by the JE, Engineer-in-Charge, GE and contractor. 

14.3.2.6 
Each container of paint and primer shall bear the following particulars:- 

[a] 
Manufacturer’s trade mark. 
[b] 
Reference to Indian Standard to which they comply. 
[c] 
Name of product.   
 
[d] 
Net weight. 
[e] 
Date of manufacturing. 
 
[f] 
Batch No. 
[g] 
Storage requirement. 
 
[h] 
Storage life. 
[i] 
Date of expiry. 
14.3.2.7 
Each lot of paint and primer shall be checked by Engineer-in-Charge and approved by him after 
verifying from invoices, package, batch No. and test certificate. Materials shall be incorporated in the 
work only after written approval from Engineer-in-Charge. 

14.3.3. 
WORKMANSHIP:  

14.3.3.1 
The painting shall be carried out with spray painting machine as specified here-in-before. No finish 
shall be executed until a sample of the finish to the required colour and shade has been approved by 
the GE.  Where more than one finish is indicated, each coat shall be approved by the GE before the 
subsequent coat is applied. 

14.3.3.2 
The colour shall be even shade over the whole surface, if it is patchy or otherwise bad, the work shall 
be redone by the contractor at his own expense. 

14.3.4. 
PREPARATION OF SURFACES:  The surface shall be thoroughly cleaned of loose particles, dust, 
dirt, efflorescence, chalking, grease, mortar drops and other foreign matter.  The surface shall be 
sand papered with grade I abrasive paper and dusted off to achieve an even and smooth surface free 
from all dust particles.  The contractor will use electric blowers for this purpose.  If surface so 
obtained is uneven, it shall be brought to a perfectly even surface by applying putty and allowing it to 
dry completely and then it shall be rubbed with the abrasive paper and dusted off and finally area 
cleaned by use of electric blower. 

14.3.5. 
PRIMING COAT:  After preparing the surface as approved by GE, one coat of exterior water based 
acrylic primer as approved by manufacturer, thinned with water in 1:1 ratio shall be applied with 
automatic spray painting machine as per manufacturer’s instructions and as directed by Engineer – in 
– Charge. 

14.3.6 
APPLICATION OF WEATHER PROOF PAINT   

14.3.6.1 
The acrylic emulsion weather proof paint shall be applied by automatic spray painting machine.           
No stainer or colorants shall be used.  The paint shall be stirred well before use.  The primer coat 
shall not be left without application of top coats for a long period time. 

14.3.6.2 
Two coats of 100% Acrylic emulsion weatherproof paint thinned with 400ml water per litre of paint 
shall be applied. The drying period between two coats shall be minimum 4 hours or as per 
Manufacturer’s instructions.  The shade shall be as approved by GE.  The finish of Acrylic emulsion 
weather paint shall be smooth matt finish. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 287 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
14.3.6.3 
The paint shall be as per Manufacturer’s original colour as available or shade card.  No mix of tint 
shall be made into original shade. 

14.3.7 
GUARANTEE:  

14.3.7.1 
The work of applying primer and paint shall be got carried out under the supervision and guidance of 
accredited representative of the manufacturer. A certificate from their representative shall be 
obtained by the contractor to the effect that work of painting and primer has been carried out under 
their strict supervision and as per manufacturer’s instructions.  The same shall be submitted by the 
contractor to GE.  The contractor shall also obtain a written guarantee for effectiveness of paint 
against fading out, peeling off, cracking, dust / algae accumulation etc for 5 [Five] years from the 
certified date of completion of entire work from the manufacturer and submit the same to GE before 
completion of work. 

14.3.7.2 
Should the GE at any time during construction or reconstruction or prior to the expiry of the 
Guarantee period, finds defective performance of the paint, the contractor shall, on demand in writing 
from the GE specifying the locations complained of, notwithstanding that the same may have been 
inadvertently passed / certified and paid for, under take to carry out such treatment as may be 
necessary forthwith to rectify the defects to the full satisfaction of GE.  In the event of his failure to 
do so, within the specified period to be specified by the GE in his demand aforesaid, the GE may 
undertake such defective work at the risk and expense of the contractor.  The liability of the 
contractor under this condition shall not extend beyond the period of five years from the certified 
date of completion, unless the GE had previously given notice to the contractor to rectify the defects. 

14.3.7.3 
3% of the cost of the weather proof painting as decided by the GE  shall be retained from the 
final bill amount towards Guarantee for Acrylic Emulsion paint which will be released after satisfactory 
expiry of 05 [five] years Guarantee period.  If contractor fails to rectify the defects noticed in the 
treatment or found in the material the aforesaid amount so retained shall be utilized for rectification 
of defects and contractor shall have no claim whatsoever on this account. The contractor may submit 
Bank guarantee Bond or Fixed Deposit Receipt from any Nationalised Bank pledged in favour of 
GARRISON ENGINEER for the said sum valid for the period of 05 [five] years from the date of 
completion of work in which event no further amount will be recovered from the final bill on this 
account.  Defect liability period under condition 46 under General Conditions of Contracts IAFW-2249 
shall be deemed to be amended to the extent mentioned above for Acrylic emulsion paint. 

14.3.8 
SCAFFOLDING:  

14.3.8.1 
The exterior painting work shall be carried out by using scaffolding.  No zoola is permitted for the 
work under any circumstances.  Suitable scaffolds shall be provided for workmen. 

14.3.8.2 
Scaffolding or staging more than 3.5 Metres above the ground or floor, swung or suspended from any 
over head support or erected with stationary support shall have a guard rail properly attached, braced 
and otherwise secured at least 1 Metre high above the floor or platform of such scaffolding or staging 
and extending along the entire length of the outside and ends thereof with only such openings as 
may be necessary for the delivery of materials.  Such scaffolding or staging shall be so fastened as to 
pervert it from swaying from the building or structure. 

14.3.8.3 
Every opening in the floor of a building or in a working platform be provided with suitable means to 
prevent the fall of persons or materials by providing suitable fencing or railing whose minimum height 
shall be 1 Metre. 

14.3.8.4 
Safe means of access shall be provided to all working platforms and other working places. 

14.3.8.5 
The rates quoted are deemed to include the above provision of scaffolding and no extra will be 
payable to contractor on this account.  The scaffoldings shall be removed only after obtaining 
clearance of Engineer-in-Charge / Garrison Engineer after considering the quality of the work 
undertaken on completion of the painting. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 288 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
14.3.9 
SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:  

14.3.9.1 
Contractor shall provide all safety precautions for the labour engaged for this work.  All the labours 
shall be provided with safety belts, helmets, Nose screens etc and the contractor shall adhere to all 
safety precautions as per Labour Welfare Act. 

14.3.9.2 
It is also advised, contractor to have insurance cover for his workmen working at heights against any 
eventuality from any reputed insurance agencies. Department will not be responsible for any 
untoward incident happening due to lack of safety precautions taken by contractor. 

14.3.10  
STAGE PASSING:  

14.3.10.1 
The work shall be executed in a workman like manner and to the entire satisfaction of the GE.  
Contractor shall obtain the approval of GE stage wise as indicated below.  The contractor shall give 
due notice in writing with sufficient time in advance to the Engineer-in-Charge and the GE, when each 
stage is about to be completed.  The contractor shall start the work of subsequent stage only after 
obtaining written approval of the GE for previous stage.  In default of such notice being received from 
the contractor, if he commences the work of subsequent stage without approval of the GE, then the 
GE shall have all the rights reserved to reject the work and ask the contractor to demolish the said 
portion executed.  The contractor shall have no claim on this account or otherwise. The decision of 
the GE in this regard shall be final and binding. 

STAGES: 
[i] 
Extent of area to be painted. 
[ii] 
Sample of painting work [Area to be decided by GE] 
[iii] 
After preparation of surface and before applying priming coat. 
[iv] 
After applying priming coat. 
[v] 
After applying first coat of Acrylic emulsion paint. 
[vi] 
After applying second coat of Acrylic emulsion paint. 

 

14.4. 
PLASTIC EMULSION PAINT:  Wherever indicated in Schedule of finishes drawings provide Plastic 
emulsion paint two coats over a coat of primer. The plastic emulsion paint shall confirm to IS 5411 
(Part-1) 1974 (Interior) or IS 5411 (Part 2) 1972 (Exterior) as indicated.  

 
14.4.1 
Preparation of surfaces: The surface shall be thoroughly cleaned of dust. The surface shall then be 
allowed to dry for at least 48 hours. It shall then be sand papered to give smooth and even surface. 
Any unevenness shall be made good by applying putty made of Plaster of Paris with water on the 
entire surface including filing up of undulation and then sand papering the same again when surface 
is dry. 

 
14.4.2 
The paint shall then be applied either by brush or by roller. Each coat of paint shall be allowed to dry 
before the next coat is applied. The thinning of emulsion shall be done with water and not Turpentine 
Oil. The quantity of water to be added shall be as per manufacturer’s instruction. No washing shall be 
done within 3 to 4 week of application.  

 
14.4.3 
The brush shall be completely dried of Turpentine oil paint by washing with warm soap water before 
use. The brushes shall be washed in water after use. No oil based putty shall be used for filling 
cracks. Splashes in floor shall be cleaned immediately. Paint shall be in accordance with clauses 
specified in MES schedule part I. 

 
14.5 
CEMENT BASE PAINT : Wherever indicated in Schedule of finishes drawings provide cement base 
paint as specified here in below. 

 
14.5.1 
Preparation of Cement Paint Cement paint shall be made by adding equal volume of paint powder to 
water and the mix stirred to obtain a thick paste, which shall then be diluted to a brushable 
consistency. If the proportion recommended by the manufacturer differs, the recommendation of the 
manufacturer shall invariably be followed.  
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 289 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
14.5.2 
The water mixed paint shall be kept well stirred during use and shall be applied within one hour of 
preparation. To prevent algae and moss growth and efflorescence, silicon base water repellant 
compound may be added to mixture, at the rate as recommended by the manufacturer. The lids of 
cement paint drums shall be kept tightly closed when not in use, as the cement paint rapidly becomes 
air set. Preparation of Surfaces The surfaces shall be prepared as specified under white washing and 
colourwashing.  

 
14.5.3 
Wetting of Surface Before applying cement paint, the surface shall be thoroughly wetted to control 
surface suction. The surface shall be moist but not dripping wet when the paint is applied. Surfaces 
which readily absorb moisture shall be wetted in one operation not more than one hour before 
painting. Surfaces which absorb moisture slowly shall be wetted in at least two operations not less 
than 30 minutes apart.  

 
14.5.4  
Application of Paint No painting shall be done when the paint is likely to be exposed to a temperature 
below 7° C within 48 hours after application.  

 
14.5.5 
When weather conditions are such as to cause the paint to dry rapidly, work shall be carried out ‘in 
the shadow’ as far as possible, for proper hardening of the paint film.  

 
14.5.6  
To maintain a uniform mixture and to prevent segregation, the paint shall be stirred frequently in the 
bucket. White Washing, Colour Washing and Distempering. Unless otherwise indicated, new surfaces 
shall be treated with minimum of two coats of cement paint of the same colour. Not less than 24 
hours shall be allowed between two coats and the second or subsequent coat shall not be started 
until the preceding coat has become sufficiently hard to resist marking by the brush being used. In 
hot dry weather the preceding coat shall be slightly moistened before applying the subsequent coat. 
For old surfaces the treatment will be with one coat, unless two coats are indicated.  

 
14.5.7  
Cement paint shall be applied with a brush with relatively short stiff hog or fiber bristles. The paint 
shall be brushed in uniform thickness and shall be free from excessive brush marks. The laps shall be 
well brushed out. On external plastered and concrete surfaces, cement paint shall be vigorously 
scrubbed on in such a manner as to work the paint into the voids and provide a continuous paint film 
free from pin holes or other openings. Spray applications may be adopted only for dense concrete or 
interior surfaces where the paint is not required for waterproofing purposes. The finished surface 
shall be even and uniform in shade, without patches, paints drops etc. Curing Painted surfaces shall 
be sprinkled with water using a fog spray two or three times a day. Curing shall be done between 
coats and for atleast two days following the final coat. The curing shall be started as soon as the 
paint has hardened so as not be to damaged by the spray, about 12 hours after the application. 
 

 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 290 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
15.       
FALSE CEILING:   

15.1 
GYPSUM BOARD CEILING :  Gypsum tile Ceiling shall be provided at the location as shown in drawings. 
Ceiling with gypsum board of 12.5mm thick of each panel size 600x600mm fixed with aluminium snap 
grid, fixing gypsum board with screws 230mm centre to centre, including jointing compound joint 
paper tape and drywall top coat, complete with two coats of acrylic distemper over a coat of putty 
and primer as per manufacturers instructions.   

15.2 
ACCOUSTIC TILE CEILING : Accoustic borads / tiles ceiling  shall be provided at the location as 
shown in drawings with sound proofing / acoustic treatment by providing heat insulation panels / 
sheets as per manufracturers instructions. The Ceiling shall be with Mineral Fibre Acoustic ceiling tiles 
with open cell type of minimum 12mm thick of each panel size 600x600mm fixed with aluminium 
sanp grid, fixing with screws 230mm centre to centre, including jointing compound joint paper tape 
and drywall top coat, complete as per manufacturers instructions.   

15.3 
PARTICLE BOARD: - Unless otherwise shown on drawings or specified elsewhere, particle board shall 
be exterior grade 18/19 mm thick veneered one side decorative and other side commercial type finish 
conforming to IS-1697:1980 of make mentioned here in after.  

15.4 
PRELAMINATED PARTICLE BOARD: - Unless otherwise mentioned on drawings or specified elsewhere 
pre-laminated particle board shall be exterior grade 18/19 mm thick phenol formaldehyde bonded, 
flat pressed, 3 layered, melamine faced, BWP type pre-laminated particle board of make mentioned 
here in after. Pre-laminated particle board having choice lamination on one side and balancing white 
lamination on other side. Shade of pre-laminated particle board shall be approved by the GE.  

15.5 
PLYWOOD: Unless otherwise mentioned/shown elsewhere the Plywood shall be commercial facing 
veneer on both sides and BWR type BB; 6 mm thick of make mentioned here in after.  

15.6 
LAMINATED SHEET: - Where provision of laminated sheet shown in the drawings/ specified it shall be 
Plastic laminated not less than 1.5 mm thick natural teak finish of make mentioned here in after.  

15.7 
WOODEN BEADING: In case size of beading not mentioned/shown elsewhere it shall be 6 mm thick 
teak wood as per IS:1687 

15.8 
PVC PLY: Where provision of PVC Ply shown in the drawings/ specified it shall be of thickness 
indicated in drawings and of make mentioned here in after. In case thickness of PVC ply not 
shown/specified it shall be considered as 6 mm. 

15.9 
ALUMINIUM SNAP GIRD: Aluminium sections incorporated in frame work shall conform to IS 733, IS 
737 and IS 1285. The snap grid consists of anodized aluminium main/cross tee of size as indicated in 
drawings. Snap grid frame work shall be fixed to ceiling with supporting hanger consisting of 6mm dia 
mild steel rod, J bolts with necessary bolts, nuts and washers all as manufacturer’s instruction. The 
main and cross tees shall be jointed at junction/crossings with anodized aluminium angle bracket of 
size as indicated, if not indicated it shall be 15mmxl5mmx1.5mm, weighing 0.12 Kg per running 
metre, fixed with sutiable mild steel, bolts nut and washers, all as per manufacturer’s instructions. 
The snap grid (main/cross tee section) shall be supported at ends all along the wall with anodized 
aluminium angle of size as indicated, if not indicated it shall be 40mmx25mmx2mm, weighing 0.36 Kg 
per running metre. The size of the snap grid shall be 605x605mm if not indicated. PVC protected 
sheeting shall be used to avoid scratches, damage to the framework while fixing to ceiling.” 

 

 

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 291 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
15.10 
WALL PANELLING:  

15.10.1 
GRIPPER FABRIC ACOUSTICAL WALL PANELING: Gripper fabric wall paneling wherever 
indicated/shown on drawings shall be provided. GI channel frame @ 600 mm c/c as per manufacturer 
specification shall be fixed as directed. Provide chemically hardened 50 mm thick glass wood of 
density 48 kg/cum on GI channel frame work. 12 mm thick BWR grade commercial plywood bearing 
IS-303 mark (all as specified in SSR Part I – 2009) shall be provided over glass wood wool building 
slabs, light weight type 1 and GI channel frame wrok. Cut out as per architectural and acoustical 
design, instructions shall be made all as shown in drawings/as directed. Acoustically transparent 
fabric of approved colour shall be fixed over plywood as per fixing arrangement enumerated in 
manufacturer instruction/specification. Square edges shall typically be used where panel edges or 
seams to be invisible.  

15.10.2 
PERFORATED WOODEN SLATS WALL PANELLING: Perforated wooden slats wall paneling wherever 
indicated/shown on drawings shall be provided. GI channel frame @ 600 mm c/c as per manufacturer 
specification shall be fixed as directed. Provide chemically hardened 50 mm thick glass wood of 
density 48 kg/cum on GI channel frame work. Provide wood perforated panels of width 128mm, 
thickness 15mm of length 2440 mm (or cut to size as per site requirement) made out of medium 
density fibre board substrate with laminated facing (shade and finish as approved by GE) with a 
melamine balancing layer on other side/face. Board shall have special perforation pattern and where 
the visible surface shall have “Helmholtz” fluted perforation of 2 mm width. The panel shall provide a 
minimum sag resistance of RH 90. The edges of panel shall be “tongue and grooved” to receive 
special clips for installation. The back of above perforated panel shall be provided with sound 
absorbing non-woven acoustical fleece. The panels shall be mounted on special aluminium splines 
fixed over GI channel frame using special clips supplied by manufacturer of frame work/panels. 

15.11 
GI FRAME WORK : GI frame work, GI perimeter channel size 20 x 30 x 27 x 0.55mm (having one 
flange of 20mm and another flange of 30mm and web 27mm) along perimeter of ceiling, screwed 
fixed to wall with help of nylon sleeves and screws at 600mm centre to centre, suspending GI 
channels of size 15 x 45 x 0.55mm thick ( two flanges of 15mm each and web 45mm) from the soffit 
at 1200mm centre to centre both ways with ceiling angle soffit cleat of size 25 x 25 x 0.55mm thick 
fixed to soffit with rawl plug, ceiling section of 65 x 65 x 8mm fixed to the inter mediate channels 
with the help of connecting clip 2.64mm dia and in direction perpendicular to the intermediate 
channel at 365 mm centre as per manufacturers instructions.   

15.12 
METAL SHEET CEILING:  Metal Sheet Tile Ceiling shall be provided at the location as shown in 
drawings. The size of metal sheet tile shall be 595mm x 595mm of thicjness as shown in drawings. 
The tile shall be fixed with GI frame snap grid of size 600mm x 600mm, fixing with metal screws 
230mm centre to centre, including jointing compound joint paper tape and drywall top coat, complete 
with two coats of acrylic distemper over a coat of putty and primer as per manufacturers instructions.   

15A.       
GLAZING:  Glazing shall be with plain sheet glass or frosted glass as indicated on drawings and as 
specified. Sheet glass shall be of ordinary glazing quality conforming to the requirement of IS-1761. 
The thickness of glazing shall be of  5.5mm  irrespective of what is indicated in drawings.  In case of 
bath & WC rooms the glass shall be frosted on one side.  Glass shall be fixed to wooden windows and 
ventilators using teak wood beading with putty all as specified in MES Schedule Part I.    

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 292 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
16. 
PAINTING: 

16.1    
The synthetic enamel paint shall be of 1st quality as approved by GE. 

16.2   
The contractor shall inform the GE, within three weeks of the acceptance of the tender, the brand 
names of the manufacturer of paint proposed to be used in the works and submit samples thereof 
and obtain prior written approval of the GE before their use in the work. 

16.3    
Paint for priming coat, under coat and finishing coat will be of the same manufacturer. 

16.4    
Tint of paint, if not mentioned in drawings/schedule of finishes will be approved by the GE. 

16.5    
Contractor shall execute painting under the guidance of the Engineer-in-Charge and marked as such 
before commencement of painting work. Each coat of paint shall be passed by the Engineer-in-
Charge before the next coat is applied. 

16.6    
If the undercoat of paint is not executed within six months after applying the priming coat of paint, 
the priming coat shall be redone by the contractor at no extra cost to the Government. 

16.7    
Surfaces which become inaccessible for painting after execution shall be painted before execution. 

16.8    
Surfaces which are specified to be treated with synthetic enamel paint in the schedule of finishes and 
drawings shall be prepared and painted with two coats of approved synthetic enamel paint over a 
coat of primer all as specified.  Primer for wood surfaces shall be pink primer and for that of steel 
surfaces shall be zinc chrome primer.  Colour and shade for under coat and finishing coat shall be 
decided by Garrison Engineer. 

16.9      
PAINTING TIMBER SURFACES/STEEL SURFACES:  Where painting to timber/steel surfaces is 
indicated on drawings prepare surfaces and apply two coats of synthetic enamel paint over one coat 
of primer as specified here –in-before. Preparation of surfaces for all locations except gantry girders 
shall be all as specified in SSR Part I.  The steel surfaces of gantry girder shall be prepared by sand 
blasting. The prepared surface shall be got passed by the GE before applying paint, gantry girders 
shall be painted with primer and under coat before erection. Painting shall be carried out by spray 
painting. 

16.10      
WORKMANSHIP: 

16.10.1   
All wood work required to be painted shall be smoothened, sized and knotted and then applied with 
priming coat.  Stopping and filling [filler coat] shall be done after priming coat and surfaces rubbed 
down to a level and smooth surface and thereafter under coat and finishing coat applied, all as 
specified in clause 17.6 of MES Schedule Part – I. 

16.10.2   
The steel surfaces which are required to be painted shall be given two coats of paint, priming coat 
and undercoat after fabrication but before assembly and erection and finishing coat after assembly 
and erection 

16.11    
Unless otherwise indicated on drawings and/or specified in these particular specifications all surfaces 
of iron and steel work shall be prepared and treated with two coats [one undercoat and one finishing 
coat] of synthetic enamel paint over a coat of primer all as specified here-in-before.  Reinforcement 
bars, tinned or galvanized iron surfaces and steel-work embedded in concrete/plaster shall however 
not to be painted. 

16.12         Bottom of door shutters shall be given one coat of primer only. 

16.13     
Irrespective of what is indicated on drawings and specified elsewhere, finishing coat and undercoat 
shall be with the same paint. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 293 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
16.14 
CLEANING:  Before commencement of plastering / painting work all doors / windows / ventilators, 
Balcony railings etc shall be covered properly for protecting from the drips of paint / primer while 
painting, to the entire satisfaction of Engineer-in-Charge. Covering shall be done with tarpaulin or ply 
wood.  After completion, the surrounding area, glass panes, flooring shall be cleaned and all the paint 
marks on it shall be removed.  Contractor’s quoted rates shall be deemed included of the above said 
provision and nothing extra shall be admissible on this ground. 

16.15      
TARRING:  Prepare and apply two coats of tar to the hold fasts, backs of wooden frame in contact 
with brick work/plaster, etc.  Hold fast shall be given two coats of tar and sanded. 

17.          
PLUMBING:   

17.1. 
Plumbing work shall be carried out all as specified in Paras 18.13 to 18.27A of MES Schedule Part I. 

17.2 
SCOPE OF WORK 

17.2.1 
The work of plumbing included in unit rates of Schedule ‘A’ Part I shall include for all materials and 
labour for all items of plumbing shown on drawings and as specified and all as mentioned below 
including connections and joints with and including necessary specials such as bends, tees, etc. 

[a] 
UPVC/SWR [ring] soil pipes from water closets taken up to first manhole. 
[b] 
UPVC waste pipes from UPVC Nahani traps shall be taken up to gully trap. 
[c] 
UPVC waste pipe up to UPVC Nahani trap and UPVC waste pipe from Nahani trap to Nahani 
trap. 
[d] 
UPVC Nahani traps 
[e] 
SWG gully traps 
[f] 
Specials in UPVC lines and those in vertical stack with oval access doors. 
[g] 
The working pressure of UPVC pipes and fittings shall not be less than 4 Kg per Sq.cm. 
Notes:  
 
1. 
Soil and waste pipes beyond the above limit shall be measured and paid separately as 
ordered by GE.   
2. 
Wherever change in direction of waste pipe is necessitated in floors Nahani traps shall be 
provided at these places. 
17.2.2  
All soil pipes and fittings shall be 110mm dia UPVC pipes inside the Bldg to take sewage from water 
closets to main vertical stack and including vertical stack pipe up to 3.0 mts. from outer face of 
external wall including connecting to first man hole [excluding manhole]. Man holes to be constructed 
inside shaft of any building as shown in drawing shall be considered integral part of the building and 
cost is included in the lump sum.  Waste pipes and fittings between UPVC Nahani trap to vertical 
stack pipe up to gully trap shall be UPVC pipe 75 mm bore. Vent pipe shall be of UPVC 110 mm dia 
and provided with slotted cone cap vent cowl of UPVC at top. The top unsupported portion of such 
pipe shall be secured with stack clamps fixed to parapet or other part of structure. 

[a]  
Gully traps including necessary waste pipe in between gully traps and nahani trap / floor 
trap. 
[b]  
Drain pipes from gully trap to first manhole outside the building area and connection 
thereto.  
[c]  
Excavation and earth work up to first manhole [excluding the manhole] shall be deemed to 
be included in the cost of respective building in Schedule ‘A’ Part I. 
[d]  
Separate soil waste pipe will be taken to gully trap and first manhole from bath/WHB and 
WC/Urinals.  The nahani trap and floor trap shall be of long body. 
17.2.3 
Plumbing work shall be carried out as specified in section 18.13 to 18.23 of MES Schedule part I and 
the Contractor shall employ licensed plumber. 

17.2.4 
Where not indicated else-where, angle iron bracket shall be fixed to walls with PCC [1:3:6] type C-1 
block of size 100mm x 100mm x 75mm. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 294 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
17.2.5 
Cast iron brackets shall be fixed on walls with wooden plugs [built in walls] or plugged to walls, Size 
of PCC blocks shall be 100mm x 100mm x 75mm and shall be in PCC [1:3:6] type C1 using 20 mm 
graded stone aggregate. 

17.3    
Detailed line plan in respect of plumbing work shall be prepared by the contractor and got approved 
by the Engineer-in-Charge before commencement of work. 

17.4           SOIL, WASTE AND VENT PIPES:  

17.4.1    
All soil pipes, waste pipes, vent pipes and fittings including WC connections shall be of UPVC 
conforming to IS : 4985 as specified in clause 18.2.7 A of SSR Part-I.   

17.4.2 
All the pipes and fittings shall have ISI certification mark. 

17.5 
JOINTING: Jointing shall be carried out as specified in clause 18.52 and 18.67.7A of SSR Part I. 

17.6 
FIXING OF PIPES TO WALLS  

17.6.1   
Fixing of pipes to walls/floors shall be carried out as per manufacturer`s instructions. 

17.6.2   
Pipes embedded in floor between Nahani trap and Nahani trap from Nahani trap to external waste 
pipe stack shall be in one piece. 

17.6.3   
Accessories such as bends, branch pieces [single/double] etc shall be provided as required and/or as 
shown on drawings.  All accessories, except those below GL shall have oval access doors [standard 
pattern] to enable access to each straight section in the pipes.  Access doors to fittings shall be 
provided with 3mm rubber insertion packing and secured with set screws to make them air and water 
tight.  

17.7 
FLOOR TRAPS / NAHANI TRAPS:  Nahani traps [NT][marked as “FT” / “NT” in drawing] shall be of 
110mm dia UPVC with hinged grating and 75mm bore outlet conforming to IS including setting in PCC 
[1:3:6] type C1 and jointing with waste pipe as specified herein before.  Floor shall be sunk at 
locations other than sunken floors to accommodate Nahani traps and packed with plain cement 
concrete [1:2:4] type Bo.  The grating for Nahani trap shall be fixed in the recess made to the floor at 
locations of Nahani trap. 

17.8          GULLY TRAPS:  

17.8.1 
Where shown on drawings gully traps shall be salt glazed stone ware grade `A` complying with the 
requirement of IS-651 of 1980. 

17.8.2 
Gully traps shall be square mouthed, 150mm x 150mm size set in PCC [1:3:6] type C1. 

17.8.3 
Cast iron grating shall be 150mm x150mm and coated with bituminous paint and fixed as directed by 
the Engineer-in-Charge. 

17.9     
TESTING: All soil/waste pipes including fittings shall be tested as per manufacturer’s instructions on 
completion of work and all as specified in clause 18.79 of MES Schedule Part I to the entire 
satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge. Joints found leaking/sweating or defective shall be remade to 
GE`s satisfaction. Testing apparatus, material, labour, etc shall be provided by contractor at his own 
expense. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 295 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
17.10 
RAIN WATER PIPE  

17.10.1 
Where shown on drawing rain water pipe and fittings shall be of UPVC grade “A‟ to withstand 
continuous internal hydraulic pressure of 4kg/sqcm conforming to IS-4985, and of size 160mm dia. 
Pipes and fittings shall be secured to wall just below all joint with MS flat clamps embedded in cement 
concrete blocks 100x100x100mm in mix M-15, type BI. MS clamps shall be made from 1.6mm thick 
sheeting of 300mm width. Pipes and fittings shall be jointed with epoxy resin or compound as 
recommended in manufacturers‟ instruction. The grating shall be of CI, round type, weighing not less 
than 0.5kg each, provided and fixed at the inlet of rain water pipe.  

18.       
SANITARY APPLIANCES:  

18.1    
Sanitary appliances shall be of vitreous China first quality and shall conform to IS-2256. The 
appliances shall be of high grade and shall be coated on all exposed surfaces with impervious white 
vitreous glaze. The glaze shall be uniform free from craze and appliance shall bear ISI mark. The 
contractor shall employ licensed plumbers in work. 

18.1.1 
Water closets etc shall be vitreous china first quality white glazed and shall conform to relevant part 
of IS-2556 [Vitreous china sanitary appliances] and shall be ISI marked or of superior quality and 
finish.  Tolerance in the size of fittings as given in IS shall be permissible.   Also refer to clause 18.32 
of MES Schedule Part I. 

18.2        
URINAL: Provide white glazed fire clay stall urinal and its screens.  Stall urinal shall be half stall urinal 
and shall conform to IS 2526 [Part- 6]1995 and all as specified in clause 18.32.7.2 of MES Schedule 
Part I.  Screens shall be white glazed fine clay 1200 mm high and 15 mm thick [overall] and 
projecting 500 mm after suitable embedment in the wall shall be provided as directed by the 
Engineer-in-Charge.  The end screen shall be suitably fixed as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge.  
The range shall have 15 cm deep standard pattern tread plates of fire clay.  The inside surface of the 
stall and its screens shall be regular and smooth throughout to ensure efficient flushing.  Provide 
galvanized iron flush pipe with CP stop valve, 32 mm dia chromium plated waste coupling with 
chromium plated bottle trap 32 mm size with 190 mm long wall connection pipe, concealed GI waste 
pipe from bottle trap to nahani trap with necessary specials and fittings as directed by Engineer – in – 
Charge.  Necessary slope in PCC platform shall be provided as directed.  GI flush pipe and stop valve 
shall be measured and paid for separately under relevant items of Internal water supply Schedule. 

18.3          FLUSHING CISTERN :  

18.3.1. 
Provide PVC flushing cistern low level 10 liters capacity for water closets. The PVC cistern shall be 
conforming IS 7231. The cistern shall be fitted with suitable handle/chain/rope for smooth and 
convenient operation. The flush pipe shall be of polyethylene pipe LDPE with pressure rating of 6 
Kgf/Sq. cm. Flush pipe connecting flushing cistern to water closet shall be fixed on wall using GI clips 
and screws all as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge. The flushing cistern shall be of model waste 
bird of commander brand or equivalent of other approved make.  

18.3.2   
Connections to inlet of flushing cistern shall be done with readymade low density  polythene  pipe for 
cold water services [conforming to IS-3076] comprising 16mm bore and 450mm long polythene pipe 
having brass union at both ends. One end to be screwed to inlet of flushing cistern and the other end 
to GI pipe/stop cock. The weight of 16mm dia [outer dia] 450mm long polyphone pipe shall be not 
less than 47 grams. [The weight worked out from the density of polythene pipe for cold water 
service].  The weight of pair of brass unions shall not be less than 40 grams. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 296 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
18.4. 
WATER CLOSET [EUROPEAN TYPE]: 

18.4.1   
Water closet European type [floor mounting type]   wherever shown on drawing shall comprise as 
under: 

[i]  
Water closet European type [floor mounting type] fixed to wall with suitable ‘P’ trap. The 
water closet shall be screwed to wooden plugs embedded into floor. 

[ii]  
Seat and cover shall be of thermo plastic material conforming to IS 2548 [Pt II] white 
plastic closed pattern, flat bottom, hinged with chromium plated brass hinges, rubber 
buffers of suitable size and conforming to IS. 

[iii]  
PVC [HDPE] low level flushing cistern 10 litres capacity all as described   here- in - before. 

[iv]  
Flush pipe. 

18.5 
WATER CLOSET (ORISSA PATTERN) SQUAT PATTERN 

18.5.1   Squat pattern water closet shall be Orissa pattern WC and shall consist the following: - 

(i) 
Vitreous China white WC, Orissa pattern of size 580mm x 440mm with integral footrests and P or 
S trap with inspection vent. 

(ii) 
The WC pan/trap shall be set in lime concrete below level of rim of pan to receive the floor finish. 

(iii) 
10 litres discharge capacity low level flushing cistern made of hard durable plastic (HDPE/PP) 
finger touch operated bearing IS-7231 diaphragm bearing IS 13049 and delrin valve float bearing IS 9762 
model water bird of commander brand fixed with standard cast iron brackets, 32mm dia polythene 
flushing pipe of required length with suitable plastic coupling, nuts and other accessories all as specified 
in Paras 18.32.2, 18.35 and 18.36 of MES Sch Part I.  Fixing shall be done as specified in Para 18.87 of 
MES Sch Part I. 

18.6        
WASH HAND BASIN: 

18.6.1      Provide Wash hand basin at the locations as shown on drawing. 

18.6.2    
Wash hand basin shall include the following: 

[a]  Vitreous china wash hand basin of size 550mm x 450mm complete with brass chromium plated waste 

out let screwed with necessary coupling connection. 

[b]   
one brass chromium plated quarter turn pillar cock 15mm dia 

[c]   
A pair of painted cast iron brackets fixed on and including teak wood plugs embedded in walls. 

[d]   
Brass chromium plated chain and rubber plug 

[e]   
Ready made low density polythene pipe for cold water services conforming to IS – 3076 
comprising 16mm dia [outer dia] and 450mm long polythene pipe having brass union at both ends, 
one end to be screwed to inlet of pillar cock and the other  end to the GI pipe / stop cock.  The 
polythene shall not weigh less than 47 grams [the weight worked out from the density and dimension 
given in IS – 3076 for low density polythene pipes for cold water services]. The weight of pair of 
brass unions shall not be less than 40 grams. 

[f]  Bottle trap shall be provided to WHB 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 297 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
18.7. 
MIRROR: Provide mirror at locations and to the size shown on drawing. Mirror shall be of selected 
quality glass of 5.5 mm thick with edges bevelled.  It shall be free from all flaws, specks or bubbles.  
The glass shall be uniformly silver plated on the back, free from silvering defects.  The silver shall 
have a uniform protective coating of red lead paint.  Mirror shall be any one of the makes mentioned 
hereinafter. Mirror shall have 6 mm thick plywood backing of BWR grade with commercial face 
veneers. Mirror shall be fixed to wooden plugs embedded in wall. If size of mirror is not mentioned, 
then the same shall be of full size. 

18.8. 
WASH HAND BASIN ON GRANITE SLAB COUNTER WITH MIRROR: 

18.8.1   
Oval Shaped Ceramic Wash hand Basin to be provided at places as shown on drawings. It shall be of 
size 560mm x 410mm [or nearest size] oval shaped below counter basin. The basin shall be provided 
with a granite slab counter. The diameter of the opening in the counter slab over the basin shall be 
10mm less than the diameter of the said basin. The counter slab shall be of 18 to 20 mm thick 
polished black granite stone slab in one piece. All exposed edges of the counter slab shall be grinded 
with portable power driven grinder to smoothness and rounded finished and to be polished for 
shining. The pillar tap shall be fixed on the counter slab or as directed by Engineer-in-Charge.  

18.8.2    
Provide mirror of full width of counter all as shown on drawing.  Mirror shall be of selected quality 
glass of 5.5 mm thick with edges bevelled. It shall be free from all flaws, specks or bubbles.  The 
glass shall be uniformly silver plated on the back, free from silvering defects.  The silver shall have a 
uniform protective coating of red lead paint.  Mirror shall be any one of the makes mentioned 
hereinafter.  Mirror shall have 6 mm thick plywood backing of BWR grade with commercial face 
veneers. Mirror shall be fixed to wooden plugs embedded in wall.    

18.9 
SOAP TRAY & CORNER GLASS SELF: Provide Polished marble corner of 20mm thick soap tray at 
locations shown on the drawings and corner glass shelf as shown on drawings 

18.10 
HEALTH FAUCET: Provide 15mm dia 2 in 1 Bib cock, fancy type, twin elbow valve faucet wall 
mounted type, with and including SS health faucet & jet spray with SS flexible tube & hook of Make: 
Cat No. F-330004 for Bib cock and F-160023 for Health Faucet of Hindware or equivalent in makes 
given here-in-after. Provide Health faucet with two ways shall be provided at location as shown on 
drawings. The ABS body with 1.2m long flexible type steel tube and wall hook.  

18.11 
PEG SETS: Provide standard machine made pegs of aluminium of size shown on drawing and at 
locations shown on drawing.  The wooden plank shall be of second class hard wood and shall be 
screwed to second class hard wood plug out of 50 x 50 x 80mm embedded in wall.  Exposed surface 
of teak wood plank shall be treated with french polish. The pegs shall be fixed to plank by means of 
cadmium plated screws. 

18.12  
ARRANGEMENTS FOR DRYING CLOTHES:   Arrangement for drying cloths shall be provided at balcony 
of all buildings/ at locations as shown on drawings. String wire shall be not less than 4mm dia GI with 
galvanizing of Class-V with PVC coating. MS hooks with 8mm dia MS Rod 200mm long shall be made 
to shape as shown on drawing/as directed by Engineer-in-Charge. MS Hooks shall be embedded in 
PCC (1:2:4) type B-1 using graded stone aggregate blocks of size 230mm x 230mm x 150mm.  

19 
CRUMPLE JOINTS:   Crumple joints wherever shown on drawing shall be provided as per TD Drawing. 
The top surface of RCC over crumple joint shall be provided with water proofing treatment as specified 
for RCC roof and joint filler shall be bituminious filler board and joints shall be made continuous in 
floor.   

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 298 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
20.       
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS:  

20.1. 
STEPS: Provide steps at location and as per details shown on drawing.  Steps shall be constructed in 
brick masonry in CM 1:4. All exposed brick masonry surface up to 150 mm below ground level shall 
be plastered in CM 1:4, 10 mm thick, finished even and smooth, without using extra cement.  

20.2    
SPOUTS: Provide UPVC spouts at locations with diameter and length as shown on drawings. UPVC 
pipes shall be pressure rating 4.5 KG/Sq.cm.  

20.3 
RAMPS: Provide ramps with chequered finished on top PCC at top and toe wall at location shown on 
drawings and as indicated and specified in schedule of finishes. Dwarf wall shall be of random rubble 
masonry. Cement plaster to external / exposed surfaces of dwarf wall up to 15 Cm below GL, earth 
filling, hard core shall be all as specified herein before.  

20.4     
DAMP PROOF COURSE: 

20.4.1 
Damp proof course shall consist of 50mm thick PCC type A0 [1:1½:3] using 12.5mm size graded 
stone aggregate], mixed with water proofing compound @ 2% by weight of cement or as per 
manufacturer’s instructions and laid as specified in Para 5.42.1 and 5.42.2 of MES Schedule Part I.  
Water proofing compound for damp proof course shall be as per IS-2645 [1975]. 

20.4.2 
Damp proof course shall also be provided under door / openings [below floor by giving a vertical 
drop].  Floor finish shall be extended in door openings. 

20.5    
CILL:  Provide cills at locations shown on drawing. Cill shall have 75 mm bearing on either side of 
opening.  Cill shall have slope to external side for easy drain out of water. Green Marble stone 18 to 
20mm thick cill shall be provided over all window and ventilators.   

20.6 
     STAINLESS STEEL RAILING 

20.6.1  
Railing shall be of stainless steel as shown on drawing. The vertical pipes and hand rail shall be of 
stainless steel, standard quality of grade SS – 304, polish finish of wall thickness 1.2mm and of size 
as shown on drawings. SS tubes shall be welded at the turnings and junctions. All the welded 
portions shall be completely grinded and brought to bright and smooth finish. Anchor fastening bolts 
shall be provided with grouting so as to achieve full strength of railing. The final finish of the railing 
shall be bright and smooth. 

20.7  
Built in Furniture of steel & Wood shall be of make Godrej/Durian / Methodex / Juari. 

20.8          RCC SHELVING WITH GRANITE STONE:  Provide 18 to 20mm thick black polished granite stone slab 

over RCC slab at locations shown in the drawing. Granite stone slab shall be in one piece and shall be 
set over 15 mm thick screed in cement mortar 1:4 over RCC slab. 

20.10  
COOKING PLARTFORM/WORKING PLATFORM/PREPARATION PLATFORM/ PLATFORM:  Provide 18 to 
20 mm thick black polished black Granite stone slab over RCC slab at locations shown in the drawing.  
Granite stone slab shall be in one piece and edges shall be moulded and shall be set over 15 mm thick 
screed in cement mortar 1:4 over RCC slab. 20 mm dia hole shall be provided in the RCC slab while 
casting as well as in the Granite stone slab cooking platform only. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 299 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
20.11     STAINLESS STEEL SINK WITH DRAINING BOARD (DOUBLE SINK & DOUBLE DRAINING BOARD) : Provide 

stainless steel sink with draining board in kitchen at location shown on drawing. Sink with draining board 
(combined) shall be of overall size 2210mm x 505 mm (87” x 20”) or nearest size.  The size of bowl shall 
be 510x405mm and 200mm depth. Sink with draining board shall be manufactured from Salem stainless 
steel sheets grade A1 SI-305.  The thickness of the sheet shall be 1 mm.  The sink with draining board 
shall be of any one of the makes mentioned in list of makes. The surface of the sink and draining board 
shall be plastic coated to make it safe and scratch free installation.  The sink with draining board shall be 
first got approved by GE before placing bulk order.  The sink shall be provided with brass chromium 
plated connecting union and plug.  The waste pipe shall be of HDPE pipe and shall be extended upto top 
of nahani trap. Sink and draining board shall be supported on 25 x 25 x 6 mm angle iron brackets 500mm 
long with split end embedded in PCC block of size 250x250x150mm in 1:3:6 type C2. 
   
20.12 WORDROBE/CUP BOARDS: Provide wardrobe/cup boards as per location and all as shown on drawings.  

In-case of details not shown on main drawing, it shall be followed as per TD drawing No. DGNP/TD/217. 
Chowkats and frame of shutters of wooden doors shall be made of first class Hard wood. The panel insert 
for panelled door shutters shall be 18 to 19mm thick pre laminiated particle-board on bothsides and shall 
conform to IS-3097. Shelves shall be made of cuddapah stone as shown on drawing. Provide stainless 
steel builders hardware as shown in the drawing. Shutter shall be fixed with the help of stainless steel butt 
hinges. All woodwork shall be treated with fench polish. The internal plastered surfaces of 
cupboard/wardrobe shall be treated with the room finishes as specified in schedule of finishes. Aluminium 
anodized haspe and staple, tower bolts 100mm long, 250mm long Aldrop bolt and handles 125mm long 
shall be provided as per details shown in drawing. All internal surfaces of cup boards shall be finished with 
two coats of ACRYLIC emulsion over a coat of alkali resistant primer and over two coats of wall care putty.  
 
20.13   RCC SHELVING:  Provide RCC shelves at locations and as per details shown on drawing.  The surfaces of 

RCC shelves, shall be finished with 5 mm thick plaster in CM (1:3) finished fair and even without using 
extra cement and treated with finish given for walls of respective rooms.  Platform below shelves shall be 
with PCC (1:2:4) type B1, finished to match the flooring of the room.  
 
20.14   MIRROR WITH SHELF:  Provide mirror at locations and to the size shown on drawing. Mirror shall be of 

selected quality glass of 5.5 mm thick with edges bevelled. It shall be free from all flaws, specks or 
bubbles.  The glass shall be uniformly silver plated on the back, free from silvering defects.  The silver 
shall have a uniform protective coating of red lead paint.  Mirror shall be any one of the makes mentioned 
in Appendix ‘A’.  Mirror shall have 6 mm thick plywood backing of BWR grade with commercial face 
veneers. Mirror shall be fixed to wooden plugs embedded in wall. If size of mirror is not mentioned, then 
the same shall be of full size. The selves made from 12mm thick pre-laminated particle board with one 
side decorative finish and other side white. 6mm thick ply wood shall be used for desks. Total frame shall 
be of TW duly polished. 
 

20.15 DRYING CLOTHES WIRES:   Drying clothes wind of MS angles and wires shall be all as shown in TD 

Drawings. The fixing arrangements all as shown in the drawings. Wires shall be of PVC coated and anti 
rusted coating for MS wing supports. 

20.16 PLATE RACKS IN KITCHEN: Stainless steel side rack / plate rack shall be provided in kitchen at places as 

shown in drawings. SS for side rack and plate rack shall be of the grade SS304 and shall be made out of 
1mm thick SS sheet. Plate rack shall be manufactured by any one of the manufacturers having license 
from BIS for the manufacturing/as directed by GE. Fixing of Plate rack shall be done by means of Rawl 
plugs and as directed by the Engineer in Charge. 
 
20.17   GLASS LOOKING MIRROR:  Provide mirror at locations and to the size shown on drawing.  Mirror shall be of 

selected quality glass of 5.5mm thick with edges bevelled.  It shall be free from all flaws, specks or 
bubbles.  The glass shall be uniformly silver plated on the back, free from silvering defects. The silver shall 
have a uniform protective coating of red lead paint.  Mirror shall be any one of the makes mentioned in 
Appendix ‘A’.  Mirror shall have 6 mm thick plywood backing of BWR grade with commercial face veneers. 
Mirror shall be fixed to wooden plugs embedded in wall. If size of mirror is not mentioned, then the same 
shall be of full size. 

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 300 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
20.18  GROUND SINK:   It shall be finished with glazed ceramic tiles white in colour 7-10mm thick and of size 
200mm X 100mm all as specified. Glazed tiles in dado shall also of the same specification as above fixed over 
10mm thick rendering in Cement Mortar 1:3. 

20.19 
3 TIER RCC SHELVES:   50mm thick three tier RCC shelving shall be provided as per details shown on 
Drawings. Whatever constructional details are shown on this drawing, these shall be adopted. 

20.20 
SAUCER DRAIN:  Irrespective of shown or not in drawings, PCC 1:2:4 type B1 Saucer drain shall be 
provided allround the main buildings. Dimensions of Saucer Drain shall be as shown on main plan of respective 
building / TD drawing.   

 20.21  RAILING FOR BALCONY AND STAIR HALL/STAIR CASE:  Railing in any situation such as railing/parapet for 
balcony stair hall/stair case shall be provided all as per details shown on drawings. Where MS pipe is shown, it 
shall be light grade un-galvanized pipe of dia shown on drawings and welded to flat iron/square bars. Mortice hole 
left in concrete for fixing balusters of railing shall be grouted in cement mortar (1:2) and finished to match the 
adjoining surface of concrete. Welding of MS pipe with flat iron frames of railing where shown on drawings shall 
be with running welding. 

20.22 
KITCHEN CABINET ABOVE & BELOW COOKING PLATFORM: The specifications for Kitchen Cabinet shall 
be as under if not given in drawings: - (a) Kitchen Cabinet (i) Top, bottom sheet & shelves: 18 to 19mm thick 
marine plywood conforming to IS-710 (ii) Shutter: 18mm thick marine plywood (as per IS-710) with 1.5mm thick 
lamination (shade and colour as approved by GE) (iii) Internal surfaces of plywood finished with French polish (iv) 
100mm stainless steel handles for every shutter. All internal surfaces of cup boards shall be finished with two 
coats of ACRYLIC emulsion over a coat of alkali resistant primer and over two coats of wall care putty. 

21 
SWIMMING POOL ITEMS  

21.1 
PCC SURFACE DRAIN/ DRAIN AND WET DECK: PCC surface drain shall be constructed with the following 
specification and at locations as shown in drgs:- (a) PCC Block masonry - cement and sand mortar 1:4 (b) 
Copings - PCC 1:2:4 type B1 using 20mm graded stone aggregate irrespective of whatever is specified in drawing. 
(c) Rendering - Internal surfaces of drain shall be rendered 15mm thick in CM 1:4 and finished even smooth with 
using extra cement. (d) Cover - 40mm thick ABS UPVC as shown on drg. (e) Finishing - All the internal surfaces 
finished with finsishes of swimming pool. 

21.2 
STAINLESS STEEL RAILING: Wherever shown on drawing provide stainless steel framed railing with 
stainless steel pipe of 304 grade and fixed as per the details of manufacturer’s instruction and as directed by 
Engr-in-Charge. 

21.3 
SKIMMERS: - Skimmer shall be provided at equvidistant distance on the length of swimming pool of 16 
Nos on each side (total 32 Nos) and 07 Nos on width of swimming pool on each side (total 14 Nos) of size 600 x 
100mm. The dia of skimmer if not shown on drawing shall be of 25mm dia of 304 grade stainless steel pipe and 
fixing shall be as per manufacturer’s instructions. 

21.4 
NOZZLES Nozzles shall be provided all as shown on drawings. It shall be of stainless steel of UV RICH 
devices or equivalent. The Lumpsum quoted by the contractor is deemed to be included the cost of above 
provisions. 

21.5 
DIVING SPRING BOARD: This will consist of a laminated diving board supported on a rigid mechanical 
function which will be grouted on suitable concrete platform on the deck, all as shown on drawing. The design & 
size to confirm with FINA standards (a) Size - 0.5 Metre width x 5 Metre Length (b) Material - FRP laminated with 
wooden core. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 301 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
21.6 
SWIMMING POOL LANES ROPES: Swimming Pool racing lanes are made up of plastic pool floats (ball or 
anti wave floats) of red, blue, white in color of 52 mtr length alongwith 14 Nos of floats per running meter. Dia of 
floats may be from 50mm to 150mm and are stung on stainless steel cable, tensioned to limit movement of lane 
alongwith complete fixing arrangement and storage reel for storage of ropes, made of SS AISI 304 complete all as 
per FINA standard. Make : Austin, Potent, Halbert or as per FINA standards as approved by GE. 

21.7 
LANE MARKING TRACKS: This consist of a nylon rope on which plastic floats are fitted in different colors 
complete with stainless steel of grade 304 hooks at both ends that are permanently grouted in concrete. The cost 
on account of this item shall be deemed to include the cost of Lumpsum quoted for Swimming pool.  

21.8 
STARTING BLOCK FOR SWIMMING POOL: Base made out of SS AISI 316 polished finish with non slip 
fibre glass top of size 500x 500 x 4000mm blue color top angle deflection 100, depth of platform 1 mtr complete 
with fixing arrangements alongwith anchors etc duly numbered complete as per FINA standards. Make: Austin, 
Franco, Halbert or any other make as per as per FINA standards approved by GE 

21.9 
PVC PARTITION: Where shown on drawing PVC partition shall be made with MS hallow stud frame and 
panelled with 20mm thick PVC board all as shown on drawing. The PVC partition shall be fixed in floor and wall by 
means MS base plate and PCC blocks respectively and all as shown on drawing. 

21.10 
SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENTS: The tenderer shall have to guarantee to the quality of the water being 
maintained in the swimming pool as per provisions given in IS-3328-1965, with the provision of equipments 
catered in the Sch ‘A’ and any extra provisions required to maintain the swimming pool in conformity with the 
provisions given in IS-3328-1965 shall be provided by the contractor at no extra cost. 

21.11 
CASCADE: Cascade shall be provided all as shown on drawings. CI pipe and standard gratings shall be 
fixed before concreting. The lumpsum quoted for sminning pool shall deemed to be included the cost of cascade, 
the cost of pipe from the outer face of the foundation and upto the top of cascade. Finishes shall be all as shown 
on drawing. In case not shown, all the exposed surfaces shall be finished with 5mm thick plaster cement mortar 
1:3 using water proofing compound finished even and smooth with using extra cement and shall be finished with 
two coats of exterior emulsion paint over a coat of primer all as per manufacturer’s instruction and as directed by 
the GE. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 302 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
22       
SITE CLEARANCE / AREA DEVELOPMENT / EARTHWORK EXCAVATION: 

22.1 
Site clearance/Earthwork excavation shall be carried out all as detailed in Schedule “A”. 

22.2 
Site clearance consists of cutting, removing and disposing of all materials such as trees [less than 30 
cm girth], bushes, shrubs, stumps, roots, grass, weeds, top organic soil not exceeding 150mm in 
thickness, rubbish etc., from the area of land containing embankment, drains, cross-drains etc as 
directed by the Engineer-in-Charge. It includes necessary excavation, back filling of pits resulting 
from uprooting of trees and stumps to required compaction, handling, salvaging and disposal of 
cleared materials.  This also includes surface dressing as per clause 3.3.6 of MES Schedule Part – I.  
Clearing and grubbing shall be performed in advance of earthwork operation. The unserviceable 
materials obtained from site clearance shall be disposed to a distance not exceeding 50m. 

22.3 
Moorum shall be of good quality hard decayed rock free from roots, vegetable mould and other 
deleterious substance and shall not contain any admixture of ordinary earth.  Materials shall vary from 
dust to 40mm gauge.  Anything over in size shall be rejected or shall be broken down to bring within 
40mm size.  It shall conform to be superior to the samples kept in Garrison Engineer office. No price 
adjustment shall be made on this account.  

23.          SEWAGE DISPOSAL    

23.1    
For materials such as coarse aggregate, fine aggregate, cement, stones, steel for reinforcement etc 
refer the respective clauses as specified hereinbefore. 

23.2      
PCC bed and haunching to drain pipes shall be provided all as specified in para 18.68 of MES Schedule 
Part I 

23.3       CONCRETE PIPE NP3: The pipe and fittings shall be provided all as specified in para 18.29 of MES 

Schedule Part-I. 

23.4     
SALT GLAZED STONE WARE PIPES AND FITTINGS 

23.4.1  
SGSW pipes, fittings shall comply to the requirement of IS-651.  The pipes and fittings shall be quality 
grade `A` and shall be sound, free from visible defects.  The glaze shall be free from crazing.  The 
pipe shall give a sharp, clear note when struck with a light hammer.  The acceptance criteria shall be 
as per IS-651-1980. 

23.5       
BED CONCRETE/HAUNCHING: Concrete foundations to the pipes, hunching the pipes shall be provided 
as specified in Schedule `A`. The thickness of concrete bed below the barrel of the pipe shall not be 
less than 10cm for pipes up-to 150 mm and not less than 15 cm for pipes 150mm and over in dia.  
Bedding shall extend laterally at least 15cm beyond either side at the barrel of the pipe.  Haunching of 
pipes shall be carried out all as specified in clause 18.68.4 of MES Schedule Part I.  

23.6     
LAYING AND JOINTING OF PIPES: The pipes shall be laid on concrete bed as specified in clause 18.69 
of MES Schedule Part I.  Jointing of salt glazed stone ware pipes shall be carried out as specified in 
clause 18.70 and 18.70.1 of MES Schedule Part I. 

23.7       
TEST FOR PIPES: The pipes shall be tested for water test all as specified in clause 18.79 of MES 
Schedule Part I. The unit rate for pipes in Schedule `A` include for this test. 

23.8     
MAN HOLES: Manholes shall be built as per details given in drawing as described in Schedule `A` and 
as per specification given in clause 18.78 of MES Schedule Part I and shall be tested for water test all 
as specified in clause 18.79.8 of MES Sch Part I. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 303 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
23.9    
CI RUNGS/STEPS 

23.9.1  
The rungs shall conform to IS: 5455-1969. The step shall be clean, well cast and they shall be free 
from air and sand holes, cold shuts and warpings which are likely to impair the utility of castings. 

23.9.2  
The portion of the step which projects from the wall of the manhole shall have a raised chequered 
design to provide an adequate non-slip grip. Any ribs, chequering, battering of other projection for 
thick purpose shall be raised above the general plane of top surface of step and shall be placed 
particularly along the edges of treads. It is considered that in this position the most protection given s 
against slip. 

23.9.3   
Rungs shall be provided in all manholes over 0.8m in depth and shall preferably be of cast iron and 
suitable dimensions (see IS : 5455-1969*). May be 300 mm apart horizontally as well as vertically and 
shall project a minimum of 100mm beyond the finished surface of the manhole wall. The top rung 
shall be 450 mm below the manhole cover and the lowest not more than 300 mm above the benching. 
Footrests shall be painted with coal tar, the portion embedded in masonry on cement concrete block 
being painted with thick cement slurry before fixing. 

23A. 
RCC OVER HEAD TANK:  Refer relevant items of Schedule ‘A’ in conjunction with the specifications of 
relevant trade sections given here-in-before and in MES Schedule Part-I. The work under this schedule 
shall be carried out all as specified here in before and in MES schedule, shown on drawings and as 
directed by Engineer-in-Charge. 

24. 
COMPOUND WALL /GATE / FENCING:  

24.1 
The work under this schedule shall be carried out all as specified here in before and in MES schedule, 
shown on drawings and as directed by Engineer-in-Charge. 

24.2  
FLY ASH BRICK MASONRY 

24.2.1 
Fly ash brick shall be locally available best quality brick, as approved by GE. 
 
24.2.2 
Fly ash blocks [Solid] will be of size 400 X 200 X 200 mm / 400 X 200 X 100 mm / 400 X 200 X 150 
mm / 230 X 110 X 70 mm as approved by GE with 28 days average wet compressive strength not less 
than 50 Kg/Sq.cm when tested as per procedure laid down in IS – 3495 [Part – I] and water 
absorption not more than 15% by mass when tested as per procedure laid down in IS – 3495 [Part – 
II] after immersion in cold water for 24 hours. Average drying shrinkage of the blocks will not be more 
than 0.15% when tested as per IS – 4139. However, the contractor will be allowed to use fly ash brick 
of smaller size as per site condition with prior approval of GE without any extra cost on plus side. The 
fly ash used in the process of making blocks should confirm to Grade II of IS – 3812. The tolerance on 
dimension of the blocks will be taken as per clause 5.2 of IS – 12894. The Fly ash brick / block shall 
conform to IS – 12894. 
 
24.2.3  
200 / 300 / 400 mm thick [as applicable], brick wall shall be built in CM 1:6 and 100 mm thick brick 
wall shall be built in CM 1:4. 
 
24.2.4  
The entire workman ship shall conform to relevant clauses as applicable for brick work in section 5 of 
MES Schedule Part – I. The thickness of joint in Fly Ash brick work shall not be more than 6 mm. 
 
24.2.5  
Provide horizontal RCC lintel band at 2.10 Metres height / lintel level over 115 mm thick brick wall / 
half brick walls and hidden beam as specified in DGNP/TD/234 Sheet No. 1/1 dated 14-08-12. 
 
24.2.6  
The brick shall be procured from any one of the manufacturers enlisted as a member of  Fly Ash 
Building Materials Manufacturers Association [FABMAS]  and as approved by the GE [Approved 
list of manufacturers available with GE]. 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 304 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
24.2.7  
Fly ash bricks should be adequately cured and stored for six weeks before incorporating in the 
masonry works in both load bearing and partition walls. 
 
24.2.8  
The record of above action shall be maintained meticulously at site of work. 
 
24.2.9  
WATER PROOFING COMPOUND: Water proofing compound shall be anti-algae conforming to IS – 
2645, Specifications for integral cement water proofing compound. The quantity of water proofing 
compound shall be as recommended by the manufacturer. However, in the event of deviations the 
quantity of water proofing compound shall be considered @ 3% by weight of cement. The make shall 
be as specified hereinafter. 
 
24.3 
Materials such as coarse aggregate, fine aggregate, plstering, concrete and other connected works 
shall be all as specified hereinbefore. 

24.4 
SECURITY FENCING & GATE :  Specification of materials shall be all as specified for concrete works for 
building works hereinbefore. Work shall be got done as directed in respective items of Sch ‘A’, 
Respective Part and all as specified in relevant section of SSR Part-I. 

25.  
ROADS: 

25.1      
The work under this schedule shall be carried out all as specified hereinafter and in MES Schedule, 
shown on drawings and as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge. 

25.2   
Contractor’s representative and the Engineer-in-Charge shall jointly record measurements of stocked 
metal in measurement book to check that the required quantities have been brought for works as 
stipulated in clause 20.A.1.3 of MES Schedule Part-II.  The measurement of stacks are not subject to 
any deductions. 

25.3. 
BITUMEN:  Bitumen shall be paving bitumen of Grade VG-10 for tack coat and VG–30 for other as 
per IS – 73, Specification of Paving Bitumen and shall be Contractor’s supply and shall be procured by 
the contractor directly from  HPCL / IOCL / BPCL.  Contractor shall make his own arrangements to 
store the same. The contractor shall produce paid vouchers and test certificates for bitumen used in 
the work immediately on receipt of materials. Contractor shall make his own arrangements to store 
the bitumen. After the bitumen has been brought to site, independent tests shall also be carried out 
by the GE, to ascertain the quality of the bitumen. Testing of bitumen shall be in accordance with IS 
– 73. For sampling the numbers of containers to be selected from the lot of bitumen depend upon 
size of the lot and shall be in accordance with Table – III of IS – 73. Number of tests and types of 
tests to be carried out shall be as per relevant IS. In case the bitumen is not of requisite standard as 
verified by the GE through independent testing as mentioned herein before, the Contractor shall 
remove the total consignment from the site at his own cost after written rejection order of the 
consignment by the GE despite manufacturer's test certificate. The cost of test shall be borne by the 
Contractor irrespective of the results of tests. 

25.4     
FORMATION SURFACES:  Before laying soling the formation shall be prepared all as specified in 
MES Schedule Part I clause 20.A.21.2 and rolled by 8/10 capacity power roller. 

25.5     
BLOCK LEVELS:  Before commencement of road-work, the block levels of the area [after clearing the 
shrubs and vegetation etc] shall be taken jointly by the contractor and Engineer-in-Charge.  Block 
levels shall be taken at 3 meter intervals. 

25.5.2  
Drawing showing the block levels on the basis of the levels taken as mentioned above shall be 
prepared and signed by both parties in token of their acceptance.  Formation levels to which the 
cutting/filling is required to be carried out shall then be marked on these drawings and cutting/filling 
shall be carried out strictly according to these signed drawings. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 305 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
25.5.3  
Levels of the finished formation [after consolidation] shall be taken to ensure that the correct levels 
as indicated in the aforesaid drawings have been, in fact achieved.  A certificate to this effect shall be 
endorsed by the Engineer-in-Charge in the work passing register in addition to the entries made in 
the measurement book. 

25.5.4  
From the above mentioned signed drawing and final levels, volume of cutting/filling shall be 
computed by using standard formula of Simpson’s rule and prismoidal formula. 10% [TEN] deduction 
shall be done from the volume of filling. 

25.6      
SOLING:  Stones for soling shall be crushed or broken hard stone obtained from approved quarries 
and shall be broken to size ranging from 100mm to 50mm and conform to the samples kept in GE’s 
office and approved by the GE before incorporation in the work. Thickness of broken stone soling 
shall be as indicated in Schedule “A”, laid in layers as indicated, levelled, watered and rolled to 
required surface and camber all as specified in clause 20.A.20.1 of MES Schedule Part – I. 

25.7     
WATER BOUND MACADAM:  (WBM) 

25.7.1  
Stone for water bound macadam shall be hard broken graded granite aggregate of grading 2, 63 to 
40mm size obtained from approved quarries. Screenings shall be of granite and shall be of grading 
Type B. 

25.7.2   
WBM work shall be completed six months before laying bituminous carpet. The surface of WBM shall 
be inspected before laying carpet by GE and representative of contractor for rectifying the defective 
construction if any, specified in SSR clause 20.A.21.11, without extra cost to the Government. 
Bituminous carpet work shall not be carried out unless the ‘stage passing’ is given by GE. 

25.7A 
WET MIX MACADAM (WMM):   Wet mix macadam shall be as specified in SSR clause 20.B.2.5. The 
surface of WMM shall be inspected before laying carpet by GE and representative of contractor for 
rectifying the defective construction if any. WMM shall be laid as specified in SSR clause 20.B.5, 
without extra cost to the Government. Bituminous carpet work shall not be carried out unless the 
‘stage passing’ is given by GE.   
 

25.8. 
 SEMI DENSE ASPHALTIC CONCRETE [SDAC]: 

25.8.1. 
MATERIALS: 

25.8.1.1. The semi dense asphaltic concrete shall consist of coarse aggregate, fine aggregate and filler in suitable 

proportions and mixed with sufficient binder. The combined grading of fine/coarse aggregates shall 
conform to the following: 
 
 

Is Sieve [mm] 
Cumulative % b y   weig ht of  to ta l  agg r eg a te   passing 

19 
1 0 0  
13.2 
90 –   10 0  

9.5 
7 0  –  9 0  
4.75 
3 5 051 

2.36 
2 4  –  3 9  

1.18 
1 5  –  3 0  

0.6 
1 5  –  3 0  

0.3 
–  
0.15 
0 9  –  1 9  

0.075 
3 – 8 
 

Note:   
The combined grading shall not vary from the low limit on one sieve to the high limit on the 
adjacent sieve. 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 306 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
25.8.1.2. Coarse aggregate shall be crushed material retained on IS 2.36mm sieve and shall be crushed stone and 
shall consist of angular fragments clear, tough and durable rock, free from disintegrated pieces and organics or 
other deleterious matters and adherent coatings. The aggregates shall not contain more than 6 percent by weight 
of flat/longed pieces [Flat piece is one having ration of “width/thickness” of more than 4, elongated piece is where 
the ratio “length / width” is more than 4]. The aggregates shall preferably be hydrophobic and of low porosity. If 
hydrophanous aggregates are to be used, which in normal circumstances shall be avoided, bitumen shall be 
treated with anti-stripping agents of appropriate quality in suitable doses.  

25.8.1.3. The aggregates shall satisfy the following physical requirements:  

Property 
Test 
Specification 

Cleanliness [Dust] 
Grain Size Analysis [IS – 2386 Part – I] 
Max 5% Passing 0.075mm sieve 
 
Particle shape 
Flakiness and Elongation Index 
[Combined] [IS – 2386 Part – I] 
 

Max 30% 

Strength 
*Los Angeles Abrasion Value  
[IS – 2386 Part – IV] 

Max 30% 

 
*Aggregate Impact Value 
[IS – 2386 Part – IV] 

Max 24% 

Polishing 
Polished Stone Value [BS:812 Part –  114] 
 

Max 24% 

Durability 
Soundness [IS:2386 Part – V] 
Sodium Sulphate 
Magnesium Sulphate 

 
Max 12% 
Max   18 %  
Water Absorption 
Water absorption [IS – 2386 Part – III] 
 

Max 2% 

Water Sensitivity 
Retained Tensile Strength [AASHTO T 283] 
 

Min 80% 

Stripping 
Coating & Stripping of Bitumen Aggregate 
[Mixtures] [IS – 6241] 
 

Minimum retained coating 95% 

 
Note: 

1. 
*Aggregate may satisfy requirements of either of these two tests. 

2.   
Water sensitivity test is only required for the minimum retained coating in the striping test is 
less than 95%. 
 
3.   
If minimum retained coating is less than 95% and it is required to use  anti-stripping agent, the 
same shall be provided as per manufacturer’s instructions or as advised by testing lab as per 
approved job mix formula.  
 
25.8.1.4. Fine aggregates shall be the fraction passing IS 2.36 mm sieve and retained on 75 micron sieve, 

consisting of natural river sand conforming to IS – 383.  It shall be clean, hand durable, dry and free 
from ingenious soft or flaky pieces and organic or other deleterious substances. 
 
25.8.1.5. Filler shall consist of Ordinary Portland Cement [43 grade] as approved by the GE. The filler shall be 

graded within the limits indicated in Table below. 
 

IS Sieve [mm] 
Cumulative per cent p a s s ing  b y   we i ght  o f   to ta l aggre g ate 

0.6 
100 
0.3 
9 5  –  1 00 

0.075 
85 – 100 
 

The rate quoted for the semi asphaltic concrete works shall be including the cost of the filler to be 
incorporated in the mix as per approved mix design.  
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 307 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
25.8.2. 
DESIGN CRITERIA FOR SDAC:  

25.8.2.1. Semi dense asphaltic concrete mixes should be properly designed so as to satisfy certain criteria needed 

to assure adequate stability and durability.  The mix design shall be done by Marshall Method of mix 
design [ASMD 1559 – 1979]. The mix as designed and laid should satisfy the requirements as given 
under:  
 
 

Criteria 
Specified Value 

Sem i  Dense  A s pha lt ic Concrete 
[a]  
Number of compaction blow each end of Marshall specimen 
75 

[b]    
Marshall stability in KGs 
1 200  [ M in]  
[c]    
Flow value [mm] 
2   –  4  

[d]    
Percentage air void mix [to prevent bleeding] 
3 –   5 

[e]    
Percentage air voids filled with   Bitumen [VFB] 
65  –  78 
[f]    
Loss of stability on immersion in wear at 60 degree C 
[ASTMD 1075] 
– 

[g]    
Binder content % by weight of total mix. 
* *  
[h]    
Percentage voids in mineral aggregates [VMA] 
See table below 
 

**  
The binder content has been indicated in the respective Schedule “A” items. However, the binder 
content to be used in the works shall be as per approved mix design as per job mix formula obtained 
from approved Institutions / laboratories. Adjustment in cost of binder between the exact quantity of 
binder used as per designed binder content and the quantity indicated in Schedule “A” shall be made as 
specified in schedule “A”. 
 
25.8.2.2. 
MINIMUM PERCENT OF VOIDS IN MINERAL AGGREGATES:  

Nominal maximum 

particle size* 

Minimum VMA, Percent related to mix Design air voids, percent** 

3.0 
4. 0  
5 .0  

9.5 
14.0 
1 5 .0  
1 6 .0 
12.5 
13.0 
14.0 
1 5 .0  

19.0 
12.0 
13.0 
1 4 .0  
25.0 
11.0 
12.0 
1 3 .0  

37.5 
10.0 
11.0 
12.0 
 

* 
The nominal maximum particle size is one size large than the first sieve to retain more than the 10. 
 
** Interpolate maximum voids in the mineral aggregate [VMA] for design air voids values between 

those listed.  
 
25.8.3. 
JOB-MIX FORMULA FOR SDAC: 

25.8.3.1. Job mix formula shall be got designed in any of the Institutions given below:   

[a] 
CRRI, New Delhi 

[b] 
SEMT Wing, CME Pune. 

[c] 
IIT Chennai / Roorkee / Delhi  

[d] 
Any Govt. Approved Lab. 

25.8.3.2 The proportions of coarse aggregates, fine aggregates and mineral filler shall be indicated as 

percentage by weight of total aggregate including mineral filler.  Contractor shall submit these mix 
proportions to Garrison Engineer for approval on meeting the specifications mentioned hereinbefore.  
 
25.8.3.3. The contractor shall submit their job mix formula to the Garrison Engineer for approval. A re – 

verification of mix proportion is essential for every change in source of aggregates and bitumen and by 
obtaining fresh job mix formula and mix design. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 308 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
 
25.8.3.4. Material, quality, workmanship, mix design criteria for semi dense asphaltic concrete shall be all as 

described in clause 20.B.2 of MES Schedule Part – I. Anti stripping agent shall be added   to the 
aggregate to reduce the stripping time of aggregate all as per manufacturer’s instructions without any 
extra cost to the Government. The binder shall be paving bitumen. 
 
25.8.3.5. Preparation of mix, laying, spreading, compaction and control for semi dense asphaltic concrete shall be 

done all as specified in clause 20.B.4 of MES Schedule Part – I.    
 
25.8.3.6. The design mix for semi dense asphaltic concrete shall be carried out from any approved Regional 

Laboratory / Government Approved Lab / Engineering / Polytechnic College. The mix designation shall 
be all as specified in table under clause 20. B. 2 MES Schedule Part – I. The cost of transportation of 
material and testing charges shall be borne by the contractor. 
 
25.8.4. 
Plant Trails – Permissible variation in Job mix formula. 

25.8.4.1. Once the laboratory job mix formula is approved the contractor shall carry out plant trails at the mixer 

to establish that the plant can be set up to produce a uniform mix conforming to the approved job mix 
formula. The permissible variations of the individual percentages of the various ingredients in the actual 
mix from the job mix formula to be used shall be within the limits as specified in table below. 
  

Description 
Permissible variation 

SD A C 

Aggregate passing 19mm sieve or larger 
+ 8 %  
Aggregate passing 13.2mm, 9.5 mm 
+ 7% 

Aggregate passing 4.75 mm 
+  6 %  

Aggregate passing 2.36mm, 1.18 mm, 0.6 mm 
+ 5%  
Aggregate passing 0.3mm, 0.15 mm 
+   4% 

Aggregate Passing 0.075mm 
+   2% 
Mixing temperature 
+10°C 
25.8.4.2. Once the plant trials have demonstrated the capability of the plant, and the trials are approved, the 

laying operation may commence. GE may order additional testing of the product to establish the 
reliability and consistency of the plant.  No claim whatsoever on this account will be admissible. 
 
25.8.4.3  LAYING TRIALS: [For SDAC]  

[a] 
Once the plant trials have been successfully completed and approved, the contractor shall carry 
out laying trials at the locations as indicated by the Engineer-in-Charge on runway, to 
demonstrate that the proposed mix can be successfully laid, and compacted all in accordance 
with contract conditions.  The laying trial shall be carried out on suitable area, which is not to 
form part of the works, unless of 100 Sq.m of construction similar to that of the proposed work, 
and it shall be in all respects similar, particularly compaction shall be same as required in the 
proposed work, on which the bituminous material is to be laid.  
 
[b] 
The contractor shall previously inform the GE of the proposed method for laying and 
compacting the material. The plant trials shall then establish if the proposed laying plant, 
compaction plant, and methodology is capable of producing satisfactory results. The density of 
the finished paving layer shall be determined by taking cores, not sooner than 24 hours after 
laying or by other approved method 

 
[c] 
Once the laying trials have been approved, the same plant and methodology shall be applied to 
the laying of the material on the project, and no variation of either shall be acceptable, unless 
approved in writing by the GE, who may at his discretion require further laying trials without 
any extra cost to the Government.  

 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 309 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
25.8.5. 
MIXING AND TRANSPORTATION OF MIX:  

25.8.5.1. The temperature of binder at the time of mixing shall be in the range of 165°C to 170°C and of the 

aggregates in the range of 153°C to 163°C, provided also that at no time, the difference in temperature 
between the aggregates and binder shall exceed 14°C. The mixing shall be thorough to ensure that a 
homogeneous mixture is obtained in which all particles of the mineral aggregates are coated uniformly 
and temperature of mix shall not exceed 160°C.  
 
25.8.5.2. Hot mix plant shall be used for mixing of aggregate and the binder.  The binder shall be heated to the 

specified temperature.  The aggregate shall be suitably warmed or heated before loading into hot mix 
plant.  The correct quantity of each size of aggregate shall be fed into mixer with specified quantity of 
each size of aggregate shall be fed into mixer with specified quantity of binder.  Each batch shall be 
mixed to ensure thorough coating.  

 
25.8.5.3. The mix shall be transported from the mixing plant to the point of use in suitable tipper vehicles 

specified here in after.  The vehicles employed for transport shall be cleaned and be covered using 
suitable covers in transit to ensure that the temperature of mix does not fall below 120 degrees Celsius 
at the time of laying.  
 
25.8.6. 
SPREADING OF THE MIX:  Spreading of asphaltic concrete shall be done by means of self–propelled 
mechanical Paver with a provision of electronic sensing device for automatic levelling and profile control 
within the specified tolerances and internal heating arrangement for the screed.  
 
25.8.7. 
ROLLING AND COMPACTION:  The rolling and compaction process for SDAC asphaltic concrete [shall 
be in four stages as described here in after.  The initial or breakdown rolling shall be done with 8 to 10 
tone Tandem Vibratory Roller use on static mode.  Intermediate rolling shall be with a smooth sheet 
pneumatic roller of 15 to 30 ton capacity having tyre pressure of 7 Kg/Sq.cm.  There after the 
compaction will be carried with the help of Tandem roller with vibratory mode till compaction levels are 
achieved.  Final compaction and surface finish shall be achieved with the help of pneumatic tyred roller.  
 
25.8.8. 
QUALITY ASSURANCE:  Adequate quality control at every stage of work is essential and the 
contractor is responsible in conducting day to day quality control tests as enumerated in succeeding 
clauses.  This shall be in addition to any other tests which will be required by the Garrison Engineer and 
Engineer-in-Charge through approved laboratory/test house.  Expenses on all test shall be deemed to 
be included in the rates quoted.   
 
25.8.9. 
QUALITY CONTROL PLAN:  

25.8.9.1. The following details are to be submitted by contractor duly signed within 15 days of commencement of 

work. 
 
 
 
PART – I: 

1 
Contract Agreement Reference No 
  

2 
CPM Net work prepared and approved by GE 
 

3 
Resource scheduling done base on CPM 
 

4 
Mix design submitted and approved 
 

5 
Preliminary works completed to standard engineering practice 
 

6 
Arrangements for water made 
 

7 
Arrangement for electric supply made  
 

8 

Materials brought to the site to be maintained as per following format: 
 
Ser 
No. 
Item 
Source as 

per CA 

Contractors plan 

of sourcing 

Refer to 
testing clause 

Agency for 

tes t ing 

Responsibility for 

te s ting 
 

9 
List of all T & P, make and numbers that the contractor would d e plo y  at   site of wor k  
 

10 
Name of person nominated by contractor for exercising quality   c on trol    
 

11 
Qualifications / Experience of person at Serial No.11 above. 
 

12 
Name of supervisors with their qualifications experience emplo y ed by contr ac to r   
 
13
 

Confirmation that contract requirements relating to quality of all materials and quality standards 
workmanship and finishes and acceptance criteria are explained and understood by all 
 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 310 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

14 

Confirmation that requirement of tests to be conducted on materials before approval of samples 
and during execution, tests on workmanship, tests before acceptance including the testing 
procedure, sampling techniques frequency and agencies responsible for testing are understood 
and shall be complied with.

 

15 
Method to be adopted for maintaining records of test result 
 

16 

Certificate that contractor shall maintain log of all materials received at site as per the following 
format: 
 

Ser 
No. 
Date 
Material 
Quality 
received 
Source 

Whether as 
per approved 
sample or not 

Test carried 

out by 
supplier 

Tests to be 

carried out 

before 
in corpo r ation 

 

17 
General Remarks by contractor of his plan of actions to ensure that quality standards.  
 
 
25.8.10. 
PLANTS / MACHINERY TO BE USED:  

25.8.10.1.  HOT MIX PLANT:  Computerized Hot mix plant of adequate capacity and capable of producing a 

proper and uniform quality mix shall be used for preparation of the mix.  The plant shall be drum mix 
type, electrically controlled and computerized monitored continuous mix type. The plant shall have 
coordinated set of essential units capable of producing uniform mix as per the job mix formula such 
as:  

 
[a] 
Cold aggregate feed system for providing blended aggregate in correct proportions.  At least 
3 bin system shall be deployed. 

 
[b] 
The rotating drum shall be fitted with suitable burners capable of heating the aggregates to 
the required temperature without any visible unborn fuel or carbon residue on the aggregates.  
[c] 
The three – bin aggregate feed system shall have variable speed belt conveyors, [load cells 
or other suitable devices] for regulating the accurate proportioning of aggregates into an 
even flow automatically from a central control bin.  
 
[d] 
Bitumen control unit of the system shall be capable of measuring/metering and spraying 
required quantity of bitumen at specified temperature with synchronization of bitumen and 
aggregates feed. 
[e] 
Filler system suitable to receive bagged or bulk supply of filler material and its incorporation 
in the mix in correct quantity which could be controlled from central control unit. 
 
[f] 
Dust control unit shall be part of the plant. 
 
[g] 
Suitable auxiliary bitumen boiler of adequate capacity with self – heating arrangement and 
temperature control device.  
 
25.8.10.2.  PAVER FINISHER:  Paver finisher shall have the following essential features: 

[a] 
Loading hoppers and suitable distributing mechanism. 

[b] 
Hydrostatic drive / Control for all drives 

[c] 
Hydraulically extendable screed for appropriate width requirement 

[d] 
The screed shall have tamping and vibrating arrangement for initial compaction tutelage as it 
is spread without rutting or spoiling the surface.  It shall have adjustable amplitude and 
infinitely variable frequency. 

 
[e] 
Necessary control mechanism so as to ensure that the finished surface is free from surface 
blemishes. 
 
 
Note: 
The work shall be carried out by means of mechanical paver. However, wherever widening of 
road less than 2.0m, same shall be allowed manually. 
 
25.8.10.3.  SPRAYING FOR TACK COAT:  Tipper mounted with storage douser for bitumen with heating 

arrangement and having nozzle fixed at end with suitable pumping arrangement to spray the heated 
bitumen.  The system should have a built – in arrangement to control the speed of the vehicle to give 
exact / desired quantity of bitumen to be sprayed.  
 
25.8.10.4.  TIPPERS:  Tippers deployed for transportation of asphaltic concrete should be directly able to 

discharge into the paver hopper and shall have suitable hydraulic control for operating the system.  
The minimum carrying capacity of Tipper shall be 6 Ton. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 311 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
 
25.8.10.5.  TANDEM VIBRATORY ROLLER:  Tandem Vibratory roller shall have both modes of compaction i.e. 

static mode as well as vibratory mode.  It is desirable to use the static mode for the initial rolling and 
then resort to vibratory rolling and final finishing to be done by static rolling.  The machine shall have 
auto water spraying system.  
 
25.8.10.6.  PNEUMATIC TYRE ROLLER:  

[a] 
Final rolling shall be carried out by pneumatic tyre roller. The roller shall have pneumatic 
tyres placed in such a way that area traversed is suitably covered by the combination of front 
/ rear wheels.  The empty weight may be put to the tune of 10 tons and it shall be possible 
to increase this load to about 21 tons, with ballast or other martial for compaction purposes.  
This machine shall have auto water spray system.  
[b] 
The contractor shall remove all loose material/wooden twigs or any other material from 
resurfaced portion of the road after completion of work.  
 
25.8.11 
QUALITY CONTROL TESTS: 
 
25.8.11.1.  CONTROL TESTS ON FLEXIBLE PAVEMENT: 
 

Sl 
Type of 
Construction 
Test 
Frequency [Minimum] 

1 
Semi Dense 
Bituminous 
Concrete / 
Bituminous 
Concrete 

[i]   Quality of binder 
Number of samples per lot and test 
as per IS – 73, IS – 217 and IS – 
8887 as applicable.  
 
[ii]  Aggregates 
impact 
value/Loss 
Angles Abrasion Value 
[iii]  Flakiness Index & Elongation 

Index 
 

One test per 200 Cu.m of aggregate 
One test per 50 Cu.m of aggregate 

 
 
[iv]  Striping Value 
Initially 
one 
set 
of 
three 
representative specimens for each 
source of supply.  Subsequently 
when the warranted by changes in 
the quality of aggregate. 
 
 
 
[v]  Water Absorption of Aggregates 
[vi]  Soundness 
[Magnesium 
and 
Sodium Sulphate] 

           – do –  
Initially one determination by each 
method for each of supply, ten as 
warranted by change in the quality 
of aggregates. 
 
 
 
[vii]   
Sand equivalent test 
As required 
 
 
 
[viii]  
Plasticity Index 
As required 
 
 
 
[ix]    
Polished Stone Value 
As required, for Semi Dense  
Bituminous Concrete / Bituminous 
Concrete 
 
 
 
[x]   Percentage of fractured faces 
When Gravel is used, one test  
per 50 Cu.m of aggregates 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 312 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

 
 
[xi]   Mix grading  
One set of tests on individual 
constituents and mixed aggregates 
from the dryer for each 400 tones of 
mix subject to a minimum of two 
t es ts   per pla n t per   day .   
 
 
[xii] Stability of mix  
For each 400 tones of mix produced, 
a set of 3 Marshall specimen to be 
prepared and tested for suitability, 
flow value, density and void content 
subject to minimum of two sets 
being t e s t ed  p er plant  p er d a y 
 
 
[xiii]  
Water sensitivity mix  
 
[Retained tensile Strength] 

Initially 
one 
set 
of 
three 
representative specimens for each 
source 
of 
supply. 
Subsequently 
when the warranted by changes in 
t h e q ua lit y   o f  a g g rega t e [if  r equired] 
 
 
[xiv]  Swell test on the mix  
As required for the Bituminous 
Concr ete  
 
 
[xv]  Control of temperature of binder 

in boiler, aggregate in the dryer 
and mix at the time of laying and 
rolling 

At regular close intervals 

 
 
[xvi] Control of binder content and 

grading of mix  

One test for each 400 tonnes of mix 
subject to a minimum two tests per 
da y  pert  p l a nt. 
 
 
[xvii] Rate of spread of mixed 

materials  

Regular control through checks on 
weight of mixed materials and layer 
t h ickn es s 
 
 
[xviii] Density of compacted layer  
One  test p er   2 50 Sq .m   a r ea  
 
Binder  
[i]  Softening Point 
Initially on submission there after 
daily if site blended, weekly if pre – 
blended  
 
 
[ii]  Penetration at 25°C and 4°C 
 –   do  –   
 
 
[iii] Elastic recovery  
 –   do –  
 
 
[iv]   Ductility 
 –   do  –   
 
 
[v]    
Flash Point  
 –   do   –  
 
 
[vi]   Frass Breaking  
Initial ly   on s u b m i ssion 
 
 
[vii]  Viscosity at 150°C 
 –   do  –   
 
 
[viii] Thin film oven test, penetration, 

softening pint, elastic recovery of 
residue, loss on heating. 

 – do –  

 
25.8.12.  PERMISSIBLE TOLERANCES FOR SDAC : The permissible variation in binder content with reference 

to Schedule “A” shall be within the following limits:  
 
 

[i] 
Binder content  
: 
± 0.3% 

25.8.12.1. When the road is opened to traffic, it should be ensured that a minimum density of 95% is achieved.  

25.8.13.  FINISHED SURFACE PAVEMENT UNIFORMITY [APPLICABLE FOR SDAC]:  The finished 

pavement shall be of uniform thickness and thickness shall not vary more than 3mm from that specified.  
The surface tolerance of any paving course shall be such as not to exceed 3mm when tested 
transversely. The uniformity of finished and compacted surface shall be checked with Profilometer / 
road unevenness recorder.  Any layer with deviation beyond this limit shall be corrected and or 
removed and replaced by contractor at his own expense. The rectification in such cases shall be carried 
out with fresh materials and compacted to specifications. 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 313 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
25.9. 
MISSING DETAILS / SPECIFICATIONS:  In case of any missing specification details, relevant 
provisions contained in IRC [Indian Road Congress] shall be followed during execution of the work.  In 
case the same are not available in IRC also, the same will be followed from latest version of relevant 
technical Instructions published by E–in–C’s branch. 
 
25.10. 
MEASUREMENTS:  Refer preamble 20.A.1 on Page 465 of MES Schedule Part – II :2020.  
 
25.11. 
OPENING TO TRAFFIC:  Traffic may be allowed immediately after completion of the final rolling when 
the mix has cooled down to the ambient temperature.  
 
25.12. 
USE OF ROAD:  During the progress of work on road the contractor has to provide suitable temporary 
screen barricades preferably of galvanization sheets duly painted on back side of intersections of road 
to avoid any untoward accident.  
 
25.13. 
COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:  Efficient communication facility for executives and contractor’s 
representative shall made available by the contractor regarding site control, safety precautions, quality 
control to ensure smooth execution of work.   
 
25.14. 
MATERIALS AND TESTING:  
 
25.14.1. A percentage/selected checks as decided by the GE / Accepting Officer, shall be got done independently 

in the Zonal / Government approved lab and the expenditure for these tests shall be borne by the 
Contractor.  
 
25.14.2. Type of tests on various materials indicated in MES Schedule Part – I. In case as per relevant IS, if any 

additional tests are also required to be carried out, the same shall be carried out by the contractor 
without any extra cost to the Govt. 
 
25.14.3. If the contractor does not carryout any of the tests as specified or for any less number of tests carried 

out, recovery to that effect shall be made and the recovery rate shall be as decided by Accepting Officer. 
In case the contractor is unable to carryout certain tests due to break down of testing equipments/non 
availabilities of testing equipments, the required tests shall be got carried out in Govt. Lab/College as 
approved by GE and cost of such shall be borne by the contractor. 
 
26      
AREA DRAINAGE / RCC CABLE DUCT:   Refer relevant items of Schedule ‘A’ in conjunction with the 
specifications of relevant trade sections given here-in-before and in MES Schedule Part-I. The work 
shall be carried out all as directed at site by the Engineer-in-Charge and as described in Schedule `A` 
and as specified in these particular specifications. 

27      
RECREATION GROUNDS:  Refer relevant items of Schedule ‘A’ in conjunction with the specifications 
of relevant trade sections given here-in-before and in MES Schedule Part-I. The work shall be carried 
out all as directed at site by the Engineer-in-Charge and as described in Schedule `A` and as specified 
in these particular specifications. 

27.1 
PREPARATION OF GROUND :  

27.1.1 
SUB GRADE (Formation): Preparation of sub grade includes site clearance, surface excavation, grading 
(cutting/filling, if any) and compaction. It is most essential to compact the sub grade adequately before 
placing the other layers. The sub-grade should be compacted at optimum moisture content as 
determined from laboratory tests. Field check for achieving 95 % of standard proctor density should be 
done by Sand Replacement Method. 

27.1.2 
All excavation, earth filling and embankments shall be executed as ordered in accordance with Section 
3, Earthwork of SSR Part I. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 314 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
27.1.3 
Rolling of formation shall be done with 8-10 T power roller under optimum moisture conditions, so as to 
obtain at least 95 percent of standard proctor density. Laboratory determination of optimum moisture 
content and dry density shall be done in accordance with IS:2720 (Pt-VII)-1980. Field check for 
achieving the required compaction shall be done by sand replacement method as specified in IS:2720 
(Pt XXVIII)-1980. 
 

27.1.4 
GRANULAR SUB BASE: This work shall consist of laying and compacting well-graded material on 
prepared subgrade in accordance with the requirements of these Specifications. The material shall be 
laid in one or more layers as sub-base or lower sub-base and upper sub-base (termed as sub-base 
hereinafter) as necessary according to lines, grades and cross-sections or as directed by the Engineer-
in-Charge and manufracturers instructions. 

27.1.5 
PREPARATION OF THE BASE: The surface shall be thoroughly swept clean by a mechanical broom, and 
the dust removed by compressed air. In locations where mechanical broom cannot get access, other 
approved methods shall be used.  

27.1.6 
BASE FOR LAYING OF FLOORING: The base for all the sports ground shall be  Pavement quality 
concrete as specified  in Schedule ‘A’ laid over PCC 1:3:6 type D2 using 40mm graded granite stone 
aggregate over well prepared ground as per manufacturer’s instructions. The Payment quality cement 
concrete mix will be designed as per the design and the flexural strength shall not be less than specified 
value at 28 days in the field and shall be designed and mix tested as per design mix specified here in 
before. The Mix design shall be approved by GE.   

27.1.7 
Before laying of synthetic flooring, the surface area should be flooded with water, to ensure there is no 
stagnation. The layout of the ground surface is to be approved by the PMG and GE. However, contractor 
shall be responsible for all the dimensions and slopes. 

27.2 
FOOTBALL :  The quoted rate for football synthetic turf shall be inclusive of the following provisions.  
 

27.2.1   Provind and laying of synthetic turf flooring for football ground over the well prepared surface as per 

manufacturer’s instructions. The FIFA approved synthetic turf flooring shall be procured from FIFA 
approved manufracturers. The work shall be carried out by the rep of FIFA approved orginal 
manufacturer and a certificate to this effect shall be taken by contractor from manufacturer and shall be 
submitted to GE before completion of work. The quoted rate for football synthetic turf shall be inclusive 
of all connected items such as necessary drainage system, field markings, flag posts, goal posts with 
connected items as per FIFA requirement.    

27.2.2 
Field certification:   The contractor shall submit the following certificates. 

 
(a) Laboratory testing certificate by FIFA that the Licensee's Product has met the requirements of the 
FQC Laboratory Test Procedure and the Licensee can progress with the installation of fields for potential 
certification. 

 
(b) Initial field assessment by FIFA Field Test Institute and will issue a unique Field Test Report. 

 (c) Final field certification: If the field satisfies all aspects of the FIFA Quality Concept FIFA will grant the 

appropriate FQC star rating to the Licensee with a copy to the Department. The quoted rates by the 
contractor shall be inclusive of the visits of FIFA accredited agency rep on site.  

27.2.3 MAINTENANCE DURING DEFECTS LIABILITY PERIOD: Contractor shall maintain entire ground during 

defects liability period by deploying the facility operator. The facility operator shall ensure that all the 
equipments are available to maintain the field in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. 
Maintenance equipment on site must at least include a tractor unit, either a drag brush or drag mat, 
additional infill to top up the field and a ball roll ramp. The facility operator shall ensure all required 
maintenance equipment is available for inspection by GE. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 315 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
27.2.4 
PENALTY:  If the ground is found without facility operator / without equipments, a penalty of           
Rs. 1,000.00/day   [Rupees one thousand]  or double the prevailing minimum wage as notified by 
the Central / State Authorities / Local Bodies whichever is more per day, for the period of absence, shall 
be recovered from the amount due to the contractor. No claim whatsoever arising on this account is 
admissible. The decision of GE in this regard shall be final conclusive and binding. 
 
27.3 
VOLLEYBALL :  The quoted rate for volleyball polypropylene flooring shall be inclusive of the following 
provisions.  
 

27.3.1   Provind and laying of polypropylene flooring for volleyball ground over the well prepared surface as per 

manufacturer’s instructions. The flooring shall be procured from ITF/FIVB approved manufracturers. The 
work shall be carried out by the rep of ITF/FIVB approved orginal manufacturer and a certificate to this 
effect shall be taken by contractor from manufacturer and shall be submitted to GE before completion of 
work. The quoted rate for polypropylene flooring shall be inclusive of all connected items such as 
necessary drainage system, lines of court, net, posts, antenna and connected items as per ITF/FIVB 
requirement.    

27.3.2 
Field certification:   The contractor shall submit the following certificates. 

 
(a) Laboratory testing certificate by ITF/FIVB that the Licensee's Product has met the requirements of 
the Laboratory Test Procedure and the Licensee can progress with the installation of fields for potential 
certification. 

 
(b) Initial field assessment by ITF Field Test Institute and will issue a unique Field Test Report. 

 (c) Final field certification: If the field satisfies all aspects of the ITF/FIVB Quality Concept, ITF/FIVB will 

grant the appropriate Licensee with a copy to the Department. The quoted rates by the contractor shall 
be inclusive of the visits of ITF/FIVB accredited agency rep on site.  

27.3.3 MAINTENANCE DURING DEFECTS LIABILITY PERIOD: Contractor shall maintain entire ground during 

defects liability period by deploying the facility operator. The facility operator shall ensure that all the 
equipments are available to maintain the field in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. 
Maintenance equipment on site must at least include a tractor unit, either a drag brush or drag mat, 
additional infill to top up the field and a ball roll ramp. The facility operator shall ensure all required 
maintenance equipment is available for inspection by GE. 

27.3.4  PENALTY:  If the ground is found without facility operator / without equipments, a penalty of           

Rs. 1,000.00/day   [Rupees one thousand]  or double the prevailing minimum wage as notified by the 
Central / State Authorities / Local Bodies whichever is more per day, for the period of absence, shall be 
recovered from the amount due to the contractor. No claim whatsoever arising on this account is 
admissible. The decision of GE in this regard shall be final conclusive and binding. 

 

27.4 
BASKETBALL/BADMINTON COURT:   The quoted rate for basketball/badminton court flooring shall be 
inclusive of the following provisions.  
 

27.4.1   Provind and laying of polyurethane flooring (PU floor) for basketball/badminton court over the well 

prepared surface as per manufacturer’s instructions. The flooring shall be procured from FIBA approved 
manufracturers. The work shall be carried out by the rep of FIBA approved orginal manufacturer and a 
certificate to this effect shall be taken by contractor from manufacturer and shall be submitted to GE 
before completion of work. The quoted rate for PU flooring shall be inclusive of all connected items such 
as necessary drainage system, lines of court, net, posts, basket ring, backboards and connected items as 
per FIBA requirement.    

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 316 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
27.4.2 
Field certification:   The contractor shall submit the following certificates. 

 
(a) Laboratory testing certificate by FIBA that the Licensee's Product has met the requirements of the 
Laboratory Test Procedure and the Licensee can progress with the installation of fields for potential 
certification. 

 
(b) Initial field assessment by FIBA Field Test Institute and will issue a unique Field Test Report. 

 (c) Final field certification: If the field satisfies all aspects of the FIBA Quality Concept, FIBA will grant the 

appropriate Licensee with a copy to the Department. The quoted rates by the contractor shall be 
inclusive of the visits of FIBA accredited agency rep on site.  

27.4.3 MAINTENANCE DURING DEFECTS LIABILITY PERIOD: Contractor shall maintain entire ground during 

defects liability period by deploying the facility operator. The facility operator shall ensure that all the 
equipments are available to maintain the field in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. 
Maintenance equipment on site must at least include a tractor unit, either a drag brush or drag mat, 
additional infill to top up the field and a ball roll ramp. The facility operator shall ensure all required 
maintenance equipment is available for inspection by GE. 

27.4.4  PENALTY:  If the ground is found without facility operator / without equipments, a penalty of           

Rs. 1,000.00/day   [Rupees one thousand]  or double the prevailing minimum wage as notified by the 
Central / State Authorities / Local Bodies whichever is more per day, for the period of absence, shall be 
recovered from the amount due to the contractor. No claim whatsoever arising on this account is 
admissible. The decision of GE in this regard shall be final conclusive and binding. 

 

27.5 
HOCKEY GROUND:   The quoted rate for hockey ground flooring shall be inclusive of the following 
provisions.  
 

27.5.1   Provind and laying of Synthetic Sand dressed hockey surface with shockpads for hockey ground over the 

well prepared surface as per manufacturer’s instructions. The flooring shall be procured from FIH 
approved manufracturers. The work shall be carried out by the rep of FIH approved orginal 
manufacturer and a certificate to this effect shall be taken by contractor from manufacturer and shall be 
submitted to GE before completion of work. The quoted rate for Synthetic Sand dressed hockey surface 
flooring shall be inclusive of all connected items such as necessary sprinkler & drainage system, lines of 
ground and connected items as per FIH requirement.    

27.5.2 
Field certification:   The contractor shall submit the following certificates. 

 
(a) Laboratory testing certificate by FIH that the Licensee's Product has met the requirements of the 
Laboratory Test Procedure and the Licensee can progress with the installation of fields for potential 
certification. 

 
(b) Initial field assessment by FIH Field Test Institute and will issue a unique Field Test Report. 

 (c) Final field certification: If the field satisfies all aspects of the FIH Quality Concept, FIH will grant the 

appropriate Licensee with a copy to the Department. The quoted rates by the contractor shall be 
inclusive of the visits of FIBA accredited agency rep on site.  

27.5.3 MAINTENANCE DURING DEFECTS LIABILITY PERIOD: Contractor shall maintain entire ground during 

defects liability period by deploying the facility operator. The facility operator shall ensure that all the 
equipments are available to maintain the field in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. 
Maintenance equipment on site must at least include a tractor unit, either a drag brush or drag mat, 
additional infill to top up the field and a ball roll ramp. The facility operator shall ensure all required 
maintenance equipment is available for inspection by GE. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 317 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
27.5.4  PENALTY:  If the ground is found without facility operator / without equipments, a penalty of           

Rs. 1,000.00/day   [Rupees one thousand]  or double the prevailing minimum wage as notified by the 
Central / State Authorities / Local Bodies whichever is more per day, for the period of absence, shall be 
recovered from the amount due to the contractor. No claim whatsoever arising on this account is 
admissible. The decision of GE in this regard shall be final conclusive and binding. 
 

27.6 
ATHLETIC GROUND:   The quoted rate for athletic track flooring shall be inclusive of the following 
provisions.  
 

27.5.1   Provind and laying of Sandwich Type Synthetic Athletic Turf for athletic ground over the well prepared 

surface as per manufacturer’s instructions. The flooring shall be procured from IAAF approved 
manufracturers. The work shall be carried out by the rep of IAAF approved orginal manufacturer and a 
certificate to this effect shall be taken by contractor from manufacturer and shall be submitted to GE 
before completion of work. The quoted rate for Synthetic Athletic Turf flooring shall be inclusive of all 
connected items such as necessary sprinkler & drainage system, lines of ground and connected items as 
per FIH requirement.    

27.5.2 
Field certification:   The contractor shall submit the following certificates. 

 
(a) Laboratory testing certificate by IAAF that the Licensee's Product has met the requirements of the 
Laboratory Test Procedure and the Licensee can progress with the installation of fields for potential 
certification. 

 
(b) Initial field assessment by IAAF Field Test Institute and will issue a unique Field Test Report. 

 (c) Final field certification: If the field satisfies all aspects of the IAAF Quality Concept, IAAF will grant the 

appropriate Licensee with a copy to the Department. The quoted rates by the contractor shall be 
inclusive of the visits of IAAF accredited agency rep on site.  

27.5.3 MAINTENANCE DURING DEFECTS LIABILITY PERIOD: Contractor shall maintain entire ground during 

defects liability period by deploying the facility operator. The facility operator shall ensure that all the 
equipments are available to maintain the field in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. 
Maintenance equipment on site must at least include a tractor unit, either a drag brush or drag mat, 
additional infill to top up the field and a ball roll ramp. The facility operator shall ensure all required 
maintenance equipment is available for inspection by GE. 

27.5.4  PENALTY:  If the ground is found without facility operator / without equipments, a penalty of           

Rs. 1,000.00/day   [Rupees one thousand]  or double the prevailing minimum wage as notified by the 
Central / State Authorities / Local Bodies whichever is more per day, for the period of absence, shall be 
recovered from the amount due to the contractor. No claim whatsoever arising on this account is 
admissible. The decision of GE in this regard shall be final conclusive and binding. 
 
27.6 
COMPLETION DRAWINGS : The quoted rate shall also include for preparation and supply of 05 sets of 
coloured completion drawings of all the above mentioned recreation grounds as directed by GE. 
 

 

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 318 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
28.      
INTERNAL WATER SUPPLY:  

28.1.    
GENERAL:  

28.1.1.  
The scope of work included under Schedule “A” comprises of providing distribution pipe leading to 
water tanks and down services from water tank to various sanitary fittings, all as specified and as 
directed by the Engineer-in-Change. 

28.1.2.  
Layout shown in the drawing is tentative. 

28.1.3.  
Particulars specifications given hereinafter are brief and are only to particularise, amend and emphasis 
the specifications given in MES Schedule, Which are not repeated. 

28.1.4.  
In addition to IS mentioned in the MES Schedule the following IS shall be applicable and supersede the 
provisions of MES Schedules in case of any discrepancy. 

28.1.5. 
IS – 1172, Basic requirement of water supply, drainage and sanction [second revision]. 

28.1.6. 
IS – 2065, Code of practice for water supply in buildings. 

28.2.       SAMPLES AND MATERIALS:  

28.2.1.  All fittings, accessories and other items to be incorporated in the work shall strictly be as per 

current/latest IS [even if not mentioned hereinafter] and shall invariably bear the ISI certification mark.  
In case ISI marked items are not available in the country, these shall be arranged to the best quality as 
approved by GE. 

28.2.2.   The test certificates for items to be incorporated shall be procured by the contractor from a standard 

laboratory as approved by GE.  In addition, samples [as per IS provision] shall be tested in any 
approved laboratory by GE.  However, the cost shall be borne by the contractor. 

28.2.3.   All manufactured articles required for incorporation in the work shall be brought to site in the 

manufacturer’s original packing with the seal intact.  Incorporation shall be done only when approved 
by the Engineer-in-Charge. 

28.2.4.  The samples of all items shall be supplied by the contractor to GE for approval within one month from the 

date of issue of work order.  The contractor shall proceed with the work only after the samples are 
approved by the GE.  Approved samples shall be labeled as such are signed both by GE and contractor.  
One set of approved samples shall be kept in custody of GE till the work is completed and the other at the 
site of work.  The contractor and the executive will ensure that the materials used in the work are 
identical with the approved samples. 

28.2.5.    Concealed pipe work shall be embedded into chases formed/cut into walls/floors. After fixing of pipes 

gaps/voids in chases shall be filled with cement concrete [1:3:6] type C-1 or in cement sand mortar 
[1:3] as specified hereinbefore and neatly finished as per surrounding surfaces. Cost of cutting chasing 
in walls shall be included in Lumpsum cost of building. 

28.3. 
WATER SUPPLY PIPES:  GI Water tubing and fitting shall be of meadium grade and shall be ISI 
marked conforming to IS-1239 (Part I)-2004. Pipes and fittings shall be provided by the contractor.  
The workmanship and specification of GI pipes shall confirm to para 18.4 on SSR Part I 2009. Laying, 
jointing and fixing of pipes shall be carried out all as specified in clauses 18.114.3 and its sub-clauses of 
MES Schedule Part – I. The Contractor shall use proper bends, elbows, tees etc. at turning corners. 
Bending of pies is not permitted except where the pipe has to follow the contour masonry/brick work or 
where a fitting cannot be inserted. The bends shall be gradual and firm with the written permission of 
the Engineer-in-Charge. Pipes and fittings shall be of make as approved by the GE. Contractor shall 
provide screwed plugs to all open ends of pipe on completion of day’s work. Contractor shall provide 
screwed plugs to all open ends of pipe on completion of day work. 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 319 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
28.3A 
UPVC WATER PIPE:  Provide UPVC water pipes and specials / accessories all as shown on drawings.  
UPVC pipe shall conform to IS – 13592 [Type A]. Each pipe shall be clearly and indelibly marked with 
the Manufacturers name or trade mark and Nominal outside dia of pipe at internals not more than 3 
metres. Rubber rings shall conform to IS – 5382.  Jointing of UPVC pipe shall be carried out all as 
specified in clause 18.52 of MES Schedule Part – I. The pipes and fittings shall be fitted over RCC 
column/wall all as per manufacturer’s instructions using UPVC clamps.  

28.4. 
BIB TAPS AND STOP VALVES:  Bib taps and stop valves shall be of size and specification as given in 
respective item of Schedule "A", ISI marked and of approved make. Minimum finished mass of bib tap 
and stop valves shall be all as specified in relevant clause of MES Schedule Part – I [Specifications].  

28.5. 
GATE VALVE:  Gate Valve shall be of size and specification as given in respective item of Schedule "A", 
ISI marked and of approved make. 

28.6. 
PILLAR TAPS:  Pillar taps shall be of size and specification as given in respective item of Schedule "A", 
ISI marked and of approved make. Minimum finished mass of pillar tap shall be all as specified in 
relevant of MES Schedule Part – I. 

28.7. 
RECORD DRAWINGS:  Three copies of line plan of complete work indicating the line of pipes, size, 
positions of fittings etc., shall be submitted by the contractor to the Engineer-in-Charge on completion 
of work. 

28.8.   
WORKMANSHIP:  

28.8.1.  Skilled artisans and qualified supervisors shall be employed by the contractor. 

28.8.2.   Water tubing shall run on the external face of wall as far as possible.  Pipes shall be taken into rooms in 

such a way that minimum length of pipe is required to be embedded in walls/floors/fixed to internal 
walls. 

28.8.3. 
Laying and fixing of GI Pipe shall be done as specified in MES Schedule. GI tube sleeve shall be 
provided wherever the piping is passing through walls, floors, slabs etc., 

28.8.4.  After fixing pipes to walls or embedding in floors/walls and tested, the disturbed surfaces of walls and 

floor shall be made good to match with surrounding surfaces. 

28.8.5.   Proper bends/elbows/tees, etc shall be used at turnings/corners/junctions, etc.  Bending of pipes shall 

not be permitted except where the Engineer-in-Charge decides that it is inescapable and in such case 
the bend shall be gradual. 

28.8.6.  Water tubing shall be bitumen coated where the pipes are concealed or buried. 

28.8.7.  Pipes shall not run diagonally. The galvanizing of clamps nuts and bolts shall be as per relevant IS. 

28.8.8.   Unions shall be provided at appropriate places as directed by Engineer-in-Charge to the extent 

necessary to facilitate repairs or alterations to piping without taking out long length of pipes.  However 
they should invariably be provided for the intake and supply pipes of overhead tanks. 

28.8.9.   Screwed plugs shall be provided to all open ends of pipes on completion of work. 

28.8.10.   Three copies of record drawings on tracing cloth of line plan of complete water supply line as executed 

in the building with position of fitting shall be submitted by the contractor on completion of work. 

28.8.11.   Work shall be executed by licensed plumbers.  The contractor shall produce the license of the plumber 

for verification of Engineer-in-Charge 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 320 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
29.     
INTERNAL ELECTRIC SUPPLY:   

29.1.1. 
SCOPE OF WORK:  The scope of work under this Schedule “A” consists of providing internal 
electrification to the buildings as described in Schedule “A” Part – III and as specified and shown on 
drawings. 

29.1.2. 
The specifications and general rules/conditions laid in MES Schedule Part – I and Part – II including 
errata and amendments thereto as applicable. 

29.1.3. 
The following specifications for internal electrification are supplementary to these given in MES 
Schedule and shall be read in conjunction with them.  These specifications will take precedence over 
the specifications in MES Schedule where at variance. 

29.1.4. 
All electrical works shall be executed as specified in MES Schedule. 

29.1.5. 
The general tentative layout of the wiring points and fittings is shown in the drawings.  The exact 
locations of fittings may be altered by the Engineer-in-Charge to suit the site requirements and the 
contractor shall have no claim of any nature on this account. 

29.1.6. 
All electrical fittings and wiring runs must be clear off doors, windows and openings. 

29.1.7. 
Point wiring circuit.  The arrangement of circuit shall be as per schematic drawing. 

29.2.      CLASS OF WORK:  

29.2.1. 
The work shall be carried out in strict compliance with the provisions contained the latest edition of the 
Indian Electricity Rules IEE Regulations and IS-732 [Code of practice for electrical wiring and fittings in 
buildings] as applicable to these works except where such regulations and rules are modified by the 
specifications.  It shall be of high standard and approved constructions used in modern electrical work 
and shall be suitable in every respect for the type of voltage specified and shall be to the satisfaction of 
the Engineer-in-Charge. 

29.2.2.   All electrical works shall be executed properly by skilled licensed electricians under the supervision of 

suitably qualified electrical supervisor.  The contractor on demand by Engineer-in -charge shall produce 
such evidence of qualifications of his workmen, supervisors either at the commencement or thereafter 
during contract period. 

 29.2.3.   The position of electrical fittings and fixtures shown on the drawings may be changed by the GE. If 

found necessary such changes does not entail any price adjustment. 

29.2.4.   The run of ERW conduits shall be marked on the walls and soffits of roof/floor/slabs for wiring.  

Approval of the Engineer-in-Charge shall be obtained in writing before fixing plugs, conduits, cables and 
fittings, etc. 

29.2.5.   Looping in system of wiring shall invariably be used throughout the installations. 

29.2.6.   Wiring shall be done strictly in accordance with IE Rules and IS Specifications, layout shall be strictly in 

conformity with modern Engineering practice. 

29.2.7.  The phase identification should clearly be provided at the main incoming switch. 

29.2.8.  The name of functions of each distribution board shall be clearly and neatly painted on the distribution 

boards.  The metallic covering or supports of all medium/pressure apparatus and conductors shall be 
bonded together where possible and have two separate and distinct Earth connections.  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 321 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
29.2.9.   After fixing to walls disturbed surfaces like cutting/leaving/forming holes in walls and floors shall be 

made good to match with the surrounding surfaces.  The lump sum quoted is deemed to include for the 
same. 

29.2.10. Suitable lintels as required in brick construction for mounting sheet steel terminal boxes, etc shall be 

catered as ordered by GE and cost of these are deemed to be included in buildings under Schedule “A” 
Part – I and for special item of work for computers. 

29.2.11. Marking of apparatus shall conform to clause No. 19.106 of Sec-19 of MES Schedule Part – I. 

29.3. 
MATERIALS AND SAMPLES:  Approved samples shall be labeled as such and signed both by the 
contractor and the GE. These shall be in the custody of Engineer-in-Charge till final completion of the 
work.  The materials shall be brought to site by the contractor in the makers wrapper and shall not be 
installed unless approved by the Engineer-in-Charge. The contractor shall ensure that the materials 
used in the work are identical with approved samples and are uniform throughout. 

29.4. 
SCREWS, NAILS, ETC:  All screws used in the work shall be brass nettle fold or sun brand.  Cover of 
MS boxes be fixed with brass screws. 

29.5. 
TYPE OF WIRING:  Type of wiring shall be all as described in Schedule and shown on drawings and 
directed by Engineer-in-Charge. 

29.6.      SUB MAIN WIRING:  Sub main wiring shall be as described in Schedule “A” and at locations directed 

by Engineer-in-Charge. 

29.7.      POSITION OF MAIN SWITCH BOARD: 

29.7.1.  The main switch board for buildings shall be conveniently and suitably provided as shown on 

drawings/as directed by Engineer-in-Charge. 

29.7.2.  All MS boxes for mounting switches, sockets, regulators etc. shall be fixed flush with the finished 

surface of the wall.  All switches and socket outlets are to be mounted on laminated sheet of white 
colour complying with IS-2046-1925A9 and fitted to the sunken switch box.  The rates for point wiring 
shall include the cost of MS box and laminated sheet cover.  

29.8.     CABLES:  All cables except flexible cable to be used in the work shall conform to IS-694-1977.  All cables 

used in the work shall have ISI marking.  The cables shall be approved by the GE.  

29.9.      MS BOX FABRICATED STEEL BOX:  MS box for housing, switches etc. shall be fabricated out of 1.6 

mm thick MS sheet and made all as directed by Engineer-in-Charge and shall be fixed sunk into walls 
with plugs and screws. The size of the box shall be suitable for No. of modules used. 

Note:   
Box size may vary depending upon number of switches, sockets, regulators, etc to be provided.  It is 
not necessary to provide individual box with individual switches, control mentioned in Schedule `A`. 
Number of MS boxes and size to be provided in each room/place shall be decided by the Engineer-in-
Charge.  No price adjustment shall be admissible on this account. 

29.10.   
SWITCHES, SWITCH SOCKET OUTLET: 

29.10.1.  The switches shall be best quality and approved conforming to the requirement laid down in IS – 3254.  

Switches shall be of 6 Amps. Piano type switches shall be connected to phase and not to the neutral 
wire.   

29.10.2.   These shall be with porcelain base and Bakelite cover.   

29.10.3.   All the switches/switch socket outlet shall bear ISI mark. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 322 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
29.11.     CONDUIT:  

29.11.1.  Conduits of rigid non-metallic PVC heavy grade shall conform to IS – 9537 and accessories conform to 

IS – 3419. Conduits where specified shall be concealed in walls/slabs and fixed as specified in clause 
19.132 of  MES Schedule Part –  I. Conduits shall be approved by GE. 

29.11.2.   Metallic Conduits shall be ERW steel galvanised conduit conforming to IS – 3601. Conduits shall be 

approved by GE. Conduits where specified shall be fixed as specified in clause 19.125 to 19.131 of MES 
Schedule Part I.   Conduits shall be approved by GE.  

29.12.       PLUGS:  In ceiling/columns/stonewalls provide patent “Rawl plug” [such as “MELTREK” rawl plug or 

“Phil plug”].  These shall be of adequate size.  Wooden plug shall be provided in other places as 
approved by Engineer-in-Charge. 

29.13.      GENERAL:  All the fittings and accessories shall be uniform throughout suitable in every way for the 

supply to which they are connected. Details of materials and workmanship unless otherwise specified 
shall be as per MES Schedule and relevant IS specifications. 

29.16   
MCCBs, MCBs AND MCB DB:  

29.16.1    MCCBs, MCBs shall be approved by GE: 

29.16.2 
Sufficient length of cables shall be kept inside control boards for connections between MCBs, MCB, DB 
sub main wiring shall be measured upto the top of board only.  The unit rate of distribution boards shall 
include for the above provisions. 

29.16.3. All cable terminals inside main switches/main control board/Isolators/bus bar Chamber/MCB DB, etc 

shall be provided with suitable lugs for connection/inter connections. 

[i]  
The sheet steel MCB distribution boards shall be provided with electrolitic quality copper bus 
bar for phase neutral. 

[ii]   
Powder coated factory made enclosure fabricated out of 1.6 mm thick CRCA steel sheet. 

[iii]  
Detachable conduit entry plate shall be provided for both top and bottom with knock outs. 

[iv]   
All the miniature circuit breakers [MCBs] shall comply with IS-25A25A225A-19725A -—[C 
curve 10 KA] 

[v]  
The MCBs shall be designed for operated on hammer trip principle for effectively limiting the 
fault current within shortest period. 

[vi]  
The MCBs inside DBs shall be direct rail mounted. 

29.16.4. All MCB DBs MCBs on panel board shall be provided with suitable compression lugs/glands for various 

PVC cables as specified in Schedule “A” and the cost of such MCBs/DBs/main boards deemed to include 
the above provisions. 

29.16.5.   All the item provided in the works shall be ISI marked.  If ISI mark is not available in India the same 

shall be procured from the best available in market with prior approval of GE.  No substandard item 
shall be allowed. 

29.17.     EARTHING:  

29.17.1. Earthing shall be strictly in conformity with  MES Schedule Part –  I and as per Electrical Plate No. 2 / 

Plate No. 3 for pipe earthing / plate earthing respectively of MES Schedule Part-I and work shall be 
executed in the presence of MES representative. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 323 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
29.17.2. Excavation for earth pit shall be in any type of strata.  Excavation shall be passed by the Engineer-in-

Charge before refilling. The surplus material if any shall be removed to a distance not exceeding 50 
Mtrs and the site kept clean and tidy. 

29.17.3. No extra payment shall be made to the contractor where greater depth of pit is required and 

consequent extra length of earth wire is required to be provided to obtain proper test results as 
specified hereinafter.  All metal works associated with wiring system [other than current carrying parts] 
including cables, sockets steel conduit and boxes shall be earthed through earth continuity conductor as 
required under Indian Electricity Rules.  Earth terminals for switch socket outlets and fans/regulators 
shall be connected to the earth continuity conductors shall be as specified in Schedule “A”. 

29.18.       THE MAXIMUM CONTINUITY RESISTANCE:  The maximum continuity resistance from any point in 

the installation including the earth continuity conductor and earth pipe shall not exceed one ohm. 

29.19.       PORCELAIN CONNECTORS ⅔ WAY:  These shall be of best indigenous make suitable for AC single 

phase 230 volts 5 amps and approved by the GE before incorporation in the work. The terminal screws 
shall be brass and well shrouded in the porcelain fittings.  The connectors shall be concealed in the 
porcelain fittings. The connectors shall be concealed porcelain connectors  ⅔  way shall be used 
invariably. 

29.20.       RECORD DRAWINGS:  On completion of the wiring of the building the contractor shall submit three 

copies of the line plans of buildings [Scale 1:100] indicating actual position of all fittings and actual runs 
of all main and sub circuits and such other information which the Engineer-in-Charge require.  Phase 
and neutral wires shall be shown in red and black colour respectively. 

29.21.        ELECTRICAL TESTS  

29.21.1.  [a]   
On completion of wiring the following tests shall be carried out :- 

[i]  
Insulation test 

[ii]  
Testing of earth continuity and earth resistance.    

[iii]  
Polarity test 

[iv] 
Wiring test Sheet 

[v] 
Inventory of electric fittings and fixtures. 

 [b]  
The test result shall be recorded and signed by Engineer-in-Charge and the contractor and to 
be submitted to the GE in triplicate. 

[c]  
The contractor shall submit CMRI test certificate to conform relevant IS provisions, for flame 
proof fitting supplied by the contract.  Fittings shall be allowed for incorporation in the work 
only on production of the above certificate.” 

29.22. 
EXCAVATION AND EARTH WORK FOR CABLE:  The trenches for cable shall be upto a depth of 
75cms for LT cable and 90cm for HT cables and width as per IS – 1255 with allowances for horizontal 
inter axial more than required excess spacing as specified in succeeding clauses and bottom of 
trenches shall be formed to level and gradients all as specified in MES Schedule.  In case excavation 
is done more than those required, the excess shall be made good by cement concrete [1:7:12] with 
20mm graded stone aggregate. All surplus spoil shall be disposed off to a distance not exceeding 
50metres as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 324 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
30      
EXTERNAL ELECTRIFICATION  

30.1        Contractor has to submit 3 sets of following drawings: -  

(i)  Layout of cable  
(ii) Site test record of cable 
(iii) Inventory and test record of equipments’ 
(iv)  LT Panel drawings 
(v) Hydraulic pressure test of drawing 
(vi) Record drawing of water supply pipe line 
(vii) Inventory of equipment’s” 

 

30.1.1  
The work under this schedule comprises of Supply, installation, testing and commissioning of VCB, 
SF6  Panels, LT/HT Panels, DG Sets, Transformers, APFC Panels and other connected works.   

30.1.2   
 The entire equipment shall be from standard manufacturers with high class workmanship and 
finishes as mentioned hereinafter.   

30.1.3    
The contractor shall be responsible for supplying, erecting, installing, testing, commissioning of all the 
equipment as specified and shown on drawings and as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge. 

30.1.4   
The installation of electric equipment shall be carried out by an authorised Engineer, competent to 
undertake such work, within the rules and regulations applicable to the Andhra Pradesh State 
Electricity Board. 

30.2    
APPLICABILITY OF RULES, REGULATIONS AND CODE OF PRACTICE  

30.2.1  
The entire electrical installation under this contract shall comply with requirements of Indian 
Electricity Rules, acts and other regulations such as those made under factories and Fire Insurance 
Act, as may be applicable from time to time.   

30.2.2   
Generally power is supplied to MES by Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board and therefore all plants, 
equipment and electrical work shall comply with relevant rules of that authority also.  It will be the 
responsibility of the contractor to ascertain from Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board rules and 
regulations applicable for these installation and to ensure their compliance in this work. The 
installation under this contract shall be executed as per the latest Indian Standard Codes of Practice. 

30.3    
CIVIL ENGINEERING WORKS:  Cost of all civil Engineering works required for installation of 
various electrical equipments shall be included by the tenderer in the Lumpsum quoted. 

30.4          PAINTING AND PROTECTION  

30.4.1   
Each item of equipment shall be painted or protected as detailed hereinafter.  Entire surface of 
structural steel work shall be thoroughly scrapped to remove rust, dust etc and wire brushed.  One 
coat of zinc chrome primer shall be applied before erection.  After erection at site the structural steel 
work shall be painted with a under coat followed by finishing coat.  Damage to paint in respect of 
factory painted equipment shall be made good by applying same tint and type of paint at no extra 
cost. The cost of painting shall deemed to be included in the unit rate of respective items of    
Schedule ‘A’. 

30.4.2   
After erection at site and before being connected to the power supply, all items of electrical 
equipment and all circuits shall be fully tested to prove correct connection, insulation resistance, 
continuity, effective earthing etc.  Any defects pointed out /noticed shall be rectified immediately by 
repairing or replacing defective part of equipment at no extra cost.  All instruments and appliances, 
other materials etc. required for carrying out the tests shall be provided by the contractor at his own 
cost.   The entire electrical installation shall be tested before commissioning by electrical 
inspector deputed by the Accepting Officer.   


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 325 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
30.4.3   
If owning to storage or other causes, the electrical insulation resistance has deteriorated, the 
equipment shall be thoroughly dried out and replaced or other steps taken to restore proper 
insulation resistance before connecting it to the power supply. 

30.4.4  
After connecting the power supply, the whole of the insulation shall be tested to demonstrate its 
ability to operate satisfactorily. 

30.4.5  
The result of all such tests shall be recorded and signed by the contractor and the Engineer-in-
Charge.  The installation shall be deemed to be completed only after satisfactory completion of all the 
tests.  Approval by the GE for materials, workmanship etc will not relieve the contractor from his 
obligations to comply with all the requirements of the contract. 

30.5    
OPERATION OF EQUIPMENT OF CONTRACTOR:  The contractor shall be responsible for all 
operations necessary for the adjustment, testing and final trials of the equipments and system until it 
has been taken over by the department. During the complete period of erection and testing, the 
contractor shall be fully responsible for the preservation, care and maintenance of the equipment and 
he shall provide all materials and stores etc. necessary for these operations until the work is taken 
over. 

30.5.1 
EXCAVATION AND EARTH WORK FOR CABLE:  The trenches for cable shall be upto a depth of 
75cms for LT cable and 90cm for HT cables and width as per IS – 1255 with allowances for horizontal 
inter axial more than required excess spacing as specified in succeeding clauses and bottom of 
trenches shall be formed to level and gradients all as specified in MES Schedule.  In case excavation 
is done more than those required, the excess shall be made good by cement concrete [1:7:12] with 
20mm graded stone aggregate. All surplus spoil shall be disposed off to a distance not exceeding 
50metres as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge. 

30.5.2 
HT/LT CABLES:  HT/LT underground cables shall conform to relevant IS Specifications suitable for 
33000/11000/1100 volt grade electric supply with aluminium conductors. The cable shall be laid and 
jointed as specified in clauses 19.74 to 19.91 & 19.93 to 19.96 of MES Schedule Part – I 
[Specifications]. While laying underground cables under paths, roads etc, exact depth at which the 
cable is to be laid shall be as directed by Engineer-in-Charge. Cables shall not be bent to small radius 
while laying in trenches/ducts. The minimum safe bending radius shall be taken as 12 times the 
diameter of the cable. Cable gland shall be made of brass and conforming to relevant IS 
specifications. 

30.5.3 
TESTING OF CABLES:  Testing of cables shall be carried out as detailed in clauses No 19.93 and 
19.94 of MES Schedule Part – I [Specifications].  The cable record shall be maintained all as per 
clause 19.95 of MES Schedule Part – I [Specifications]. 

30.5.4 
MCCB:  for both Internal and External Electrification shall be suitable for operation on triple pole AC 
415 Volts 50 cycles of different interrupting capacity as specified in Schedule "A". 

30.5.5 
CONNECTING:  The cables shall be connected to the terminals of switches etc through suitable type 
aluminium lugs as required site. 

30.5.6     
UNDERGROUND CABLE ROUTE INDICATOR:  Underground cable route indicator shall be 
provided at every 50 Metres interval throughout the length of the route, and at every bend / change 
in direction of the route.  The indicator shall be made out of cast iron piece not less than 6mm thick 
supported by 25x6 mm flat iron piece.  

30.5.7       TESTING OF CABLES BEFORE COMMISSIONING:  Testing of cables as specified in relevant IS 

shall be carried out in all cables in presence of the Engineer-in-Charge after laying and jointing and 
the results shall be recorded. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 326 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
30.5.8 
GI PIPE:  GI tubing shall be all as specified in Schedule “A” and confirmed to IS-1239 and shall be ISI 
marked and all as specified in clause 125A.4 of MES schedule part I. The fittings provided by the 
contractor shall bear ISI mark.  GI pipes shall be any one of the makes mentioned hereinafter.    

30.6 
POLES 

30.6.1 
STEEL TUBULAR POLES: -  Refer clauses 19.5 of MES Sch, Part-I. 

30.6.2 
WORKMANSHIP:  -   Refer clauses 19.50, 19.51, 19.51.1. 19.51.2, 19.51.4, 19.52 of MES Schedule 
Part-I. The numbering of the poles shall be carried out as per the direction of the Engineer-in-Charge 
and unit rate quoted against the relevant item shall be deemed to include for the same. Planting depth 
of poles unless otherwise shown on drawing shall be equal to 1/6 of the total length of each pole. 
 
30.6.3 
Painting of Poles, Cross Arms etc. External surfaces of poles shall be painted with two coats of tar or 
bitumen composition in the portion buried in ground and upto concrete collar where collars are to be 
provided before erection. Steel tubular poles shall in addition be coated with bitumen composition on 
the inner surface throughout. After erection the external surface of metal poles above ground or collar 
level and all pole fittings shall be painted with two coafs of aluminum paint and unit rate quoted against 
the relevant item shall be deemed to include for the same. 
 
30.7 
CABLE ROUTE INDICATOR:   These shall be fixed along the route of cable at 30meter interval & on 
every turning & cable joint. 
 
30.8 
STREET LIGHT FITTINGS:  Refer clause 19.42 of MES Schedule Part-I.  This shall be of cast housing 
and shall comply to IS: 2149 of 1970 for street light all as detailed in Schedule ‘A’ and shown on 
drawings. 
 
30.9 
DANGER NOTICE BOARD:  Refer clause 19.18 of MES Schedule Part-I and all as specified in the 
relevant item. The plate for danger notice board shall be mild steel 1.6mm thick in case not specified in 
the relevant item schedule ‘A’. 
 
30.10 
CABLE TERMINATION & JOINT BOXES:  Refer clause 19.22 of MES SSR-1991, Part I. 

 

30.11  
TRANSFORMER:   Supply, install, testing and commissioning of various capacities of transformers as 
specified in relevant items of BOQ.   
 
30.11.1 
GENERAL :  The two winding Power transformer shall be Natural Ester oil immersed transformers shall 
be conforming to  IS 1180  and IEC 62770 standard for Natural Ester Oil filled transformer. This 
specification covers design, engineering, manufacture; shop testing, inspection, painting, packing, and 
supply of Distribution Transformers complete with all accessories for efficient and trouble-free operation 
of the proposed Substation. The design, manufacture and performance of equipment shall comply with 
all currently applicable statues, regulations and safety codes in the locality where the equipment will be 
installed. Nothing in this specification shall be construed to relieve the VENDOR of this responsibility.  
The Quality of Raw material, Manufacturing process & design parameters should meet the requirement 
so as to ensure quality of transformers 
 
30.11.2 
The equipment shall conform to the latest edition of applicable standards as follows. In case of conflict 
between applicable standards and this specification, this specification shall govern. 
 

(a)  
IS  1180, for Tests & tolerance on Guaranteed Particulars 

(b)  
IS: 3639 for Fittings and Accessories 

(c)  
IS:2099 for Bushings > 1000 V 

(d)  
IS:7421 for Bushings < 1000 V 

(e)  
IS:1271 for Electrical Insulation classified by Thermal stability 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 327 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
30.11.3 
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION  :  All material used shall be of best quality and of the class most suitable 
for working under the conditions specified and shall withstand the variations of temperature and 
atmospheric conditions, overloads, over excitation, short-circuits as per specified standards, without 
distortion or deterioration or the setting up of undue stresses in any part, and also without affecting the 
strength and suitability of the various parts for the work which they have to perform  
 
 
30.11.4  
TANK:  T he exterior of tank and other steel surfaces exposed to the weather shall be thoroughly 
cleaned and have a priming coat of zinc chromate applied. The second coat shall be of an oil and 
weather-resistant nature, preferably of distinct colour from the prime and finish coats. The final coat 
shall be of a flossy, oil and weather resisting non-fading paint of specified shade. The interior of the 
tank shall be cleaned by shot blasting and painting with two coats of heat resistant and oil insoluble 
paint. Steel bolts and nuts exposed to the atmosphere shall be galvanized. Unless otherwise stated, the 
tank together with radiators, conservator, bushings and other fittings shall be designed to withstand 
without permanent distortion the following conditions: Full vacuum of 760 mm of Hg, for filling with oil 
by vacuum. Internal gas pressure of 0.35 Kg/cm2 (5 lbs/sq.in) with oil at operating level. The tank 
cover shall be suitably sloped so that it does not retain rain water. The material used for gaskets shall 
be cork neoprene or approved equivalent.  
  

30.11.5  
CORE:  Transformer shall be double wound, core type with low loss, non ageing, high permeability 
PRIME GRADE, CRGO with M4 Grade or Better, perfectly insulated and clamped to minimize noise and 
vibrations  
 
30.11.5.1 Transformer shall be of BOLTLESS core design. Core shall be purchased Directly from Manufacturer or 

from their accredited Marketing organization of Repute & not through any agent. Bidder has to submit 
manufacturer’s name during bidding having sufficient credential & Core has to be purchased from the 
approved manufacturer. Stage inspection of the core shall be done at manufacturer’s premises & 
inspection call shall be given with following Documents like Invoice of the supplier, Mill’s test certificate 
Packing list, Bill of landing & Bill of Entry certificate by customs. 
 
30.11.5.2 Transformer manufacturer should have in-house core cutting facilities for proper control & monitoring of 

quality & to avoid mixing of Prime core with Second grade /defective core materials. Transformer 
Manufacturer should have inhouse slitting Machine so as core is cut to width & stacked with minimum 
air gap thus ensuring Burr level less than 10Microns. Core shall be procured from one of these reputed 
Manufacturers – Posco / Nippon/ Novex/ Ak Steels or else the transformer manufracturer shall produce 
invoice and test certificate from Posco / Nippon/ Novex/ Ak Steels. The insulation structure for the core 
to bolts and core to clamp plates shall be such as to withstand a voltage of 2000V for one minute. 
 
30.11.6 
Following stage inspections will be carried out by purchaser or by third party engineers appointed by 
purchaser 
 

a)  
Verification & inspection of the mother coil at port & putting Stamp & seal. 

b)  
Reconciliation of mother coil by checking stamp & Seal at factory before slitting. CRGO Sample 
to be test at ERDA/CPRI by purchaser with Manufactures Report 

c)  
Bidder should have in house core cutting facility for proper monitoring & control on quality and 
also to avoid any possibility of mixing of prime material with defective/second grade material In 
case it is done outside cutting should be done in presence of purchaser. 

d)  
Inspection call notice for the purpose should be accompanied with the following documents. As 
applicable as a proof toward use of Prime core materials: - 

i)  
Invoice of supplier. 

ii)  
Mills test certificates. 

iii)  
Packing list. 

iv)  
Bill of lading. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 328 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

v)  
Bill of entry certificates by customs. 

vi)  
Core material shall be directly procured either from the manufacturer or through their 
accredited marketing organization of repute and not through any agent. 

e)  
Core should be boltless step lap design 

f)  
Bidder should have hydraulic core lifting facility to avoid any jerk at the time of core building. 

g)  
Pre-core loss measurement test should be conducted on 1 no. unit each lot 

30.11.7 
WINDING  
 
30.11.7.1 The Winding shall be made with 99.9% pure electrolytic grade copper, insulated with thermally 

upgraded paper (Insulation Class A / Conductor Turn Insulation-Class E).  The HV & LV winding should 
be able withstand thermal and mechanical stress in the event of short circuit. The Winding shall be 
carried in dust free area. The completed core and coil assembly shall be dried in vacuum and shall be 
immediately impregnated with oil after the drying process to ensure elimination of air and moisture 
within the insulation. 
 

(a)  
The Purchaser shall witness built up winding for its quality, weight of copper, insulation and 
over all weight of coil assembly. The size of conductor used for different windings shall be also 
be checked during stage inspection to check the current density viz-a-viz guaranteed values. 

(b)  
Calculation of weight of copper by following two methods and comparison with respect to the 
value furnished during Bid stage. 

(c)  
Weight measurement of per unit length of copper sample taken from windings. Verification of 
no. Of turns and inner/ outer diameter of windings. Calculation of bare copper weight by using 
these parameters. 

(d)  
Cross section area of conductor is already measured. Verification of no. of turns and inner/ 
outer diameter of windings. Calculation of bare copper weight by using these parameters. 

(e)  
Verification of continuously transposed conductor (CTC) in LV/HV winding, if indicated during 
offer stage. 

 
30.11.8 
TEMPERATURE RISE  
 
30.11.8.1 With the given climatic conditions, the transformers shall be capable of operating continuously on any 

tap at their normal rating without exceeding following temperature rises: 

 

(a)  
40 to 45° C (kraft paper). 

 
(b)  
50 to 55° C (thermally updraded paper). 

 
30.11.8.2 The temperature of a hot spot in winding shall not exceed 120°C when calculated over max. annual 

weighted average temperature of 50° C. 
 
30.11.9 
TEMPERATURE INDICATOR:   One set of winding temperature indicators with necessary current 
transformer, heating coil and a detector element and one set of oil temperature indicator with 
maximum reading pointer shall be mounted locally so as to be readable at a standing height from 
ground level. Each of the above indicators shall be provided with necessary contacts for alarm and trip. 
 

30.11.10  
CONSERVATOR TANK:   Oil preservation shall be done by means of conservator tank arranged 
above at the highest point of the oil circulating system. Connections into the main tank shall be at the 
highest point to prevent trapping of air or gas under the main tank cover.  
 

30.11.11  
TRANSFORMER OIL:   T ransformer oil shall be as per IEC 62770 - Natural Ester vegetable oil. Oil 
should be Environment friendly, Green & Biodegradable. It should also exhibit safety against fire 
hazards. Loose oil drum should be epoxy painted from inside to avoid any contamination in oil. In 
Transformer Oil filling should be done under vaccum at 0.5 millibar.  
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 329 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

 
 

30.11.12  
BUCHHOLZ RELAYS .  The relay shall have facility for testing by injection of air by hand pump and 
with cock for draining and venting of air. The location of the relay shall be such that all rising gas will 
readily reach it  
 

30.11.13  
BUSHING:   All bushings shall be homogenous, solid porcelain oil communicating type, uniformly 
glazed and free from blisters, burns and other defects and shall be furnished complete with suitable 
terminal connectors of adequate capacity. The bushings shall be located so as to provide necessary 
electrical clearances between phases and also between phase and ground as specified in relevant 
standards. Bushings rated for 400A and above shall have non-ferrous flanges and hardware. All 
bushings shall have puncture strength greater than the dry flashover value.   
 

30.11.14  
TERMINAL ARRANGEMENT:  Low voltage terminals of Power transformer shall be brought out to 
bushing inside Cable Box. High voltage terminals of Power transformer shall be Cable Box. The cable 
box shall be suitable for cable termination kits and shall be self-supporting, weather proof, air filled 
type, complete with all hardware such as gland plate, brass glands, tinned copper lugs, armour 
clamps etc.  

 

30.11.15  
TAP CHANGER:  O ff circuit tap changing gear shall be provided on the HV winding for a variation of 
voltage. They can be suitably designed to vary in steps of 2 ½ % to get constant LV voltage of 
410 and 380 volts. T-50 changing will be done with external handles which will be avoided with tap 
position indicator and arrangement for locking the handle in each tap position.  

 

30.11.16  
MARSHALLING BOX:   
 
30.11.16.1   Sheet steel weather proof marshaling box of IP 55 construction, shall be mounted on the tank of 

transformer and shall accommodate all auxiliary devices except those which must be located directly 
on the transformer. All terminal blocks for external cable connections shall be located in this box. The 
terminal blocks shall be ELMEX 10 sqmm or approved equal. The marshalling box shall have the 
following as a minimum   
(a)  
Load disconnect switch for incoming power supply for auxiliaries.  
(b)  
All outgoing connections from transformer viz. buchholz relay, temperature indicators, fault 
contacts for annunciation system etc.  
(c)  
Wiring and termination points individually of the following trip contacts for remote alarm and 
trip.  

(i) 
Winding temperature high / very high  
(ii) 
Oil temperature high / very high  
(iii) 
Buchholz relay Alarm / Trip  
(iv) 
Oil level low  
30.11.16.2 Cubicle illumination lamp with door switch and space heater with thermostat and ON/OFF switch shall 

be provided. Marshalling box shall be designed to facilitate external cable entry from bottom. 
Removable gland plates shall be furnished with double compression type brass cable glands. Sufficient 
space shall be provided to avoid sharp bending and for easy connection of cables. A minimum space of 
200 mm from the gland plate to the nearest terminal block shall be provided. Wiring shall be done with 
HR PVC 650 V grade wires. The wire size for CT circuits shall be 4 mm2 copper and for other circuits 
shall be a minimum of 2.5 mm2 copper. Not more than two (2) wires shall be connected to a terminal. 
10% spare terminals shall be provided. All devices and terminal blocks within the marshalling box shall 
be identified by symbols corresponding to those used in applicable schematic or wiring diagrams. 

 

30.11.17  
VALVES :  Valves shall be of forged carbon steel above 50 mm and of gun metal for sizes upto 50mm. 
They shall be of full way type with screwed ends. They shall be opened by turning counter clock-wise 
when facing the hand wheel. There shall be no oil leakage when the valves are in closed position. Every 
valve shall be provided with open/close position indicators. The valves shall be suitable for pad locking 
in open/close positions. All screwed valves shall be furnished with pipe plugs for protection. All valves 
shall be provided with flanges having machined faces drilled to suit the applicable requirements.  Oil 
tight blank flanges shall be provided for the following.  

 
(a)  
valves opening to atmosphere. 

 
(b)  
for each connection for use when any radiator is detached.  
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 330 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
30.11.17.1  Any special radiator valves tools required shall be supplied by the contractor. The Transformer shall be 

provided with Nitrogen Fire Protection system so as to envisage complete safety from Fire Hazards of 
quality of oil exceeds 2000 litres as per CEA guidelines.   
 
30.11.18  
GROUNDING:   Two grounding pads, located on the opposite sides of the tank, shall be provided for 
connection of Switchyard ground mat for each transformer. Grounding pads shall have clean buffed 
surface with tapped holes. M10 G.I. bolts, nuts and spring washer shall be provided. 2 Nos. Ground 
terminals each shall also be provided on marshalling box, cable box & OLTC panel to ensure effective 
earthing. The Neutrals of the windings shall be brought out through neutral bushings at suitable 
location. The neutrals shall be suitable for connecting 75x10 mm Copper flat. For conductivity of earth 
connection, all gasket joints shall be provided with minimum two nos. of copper strip of adequate size.  

 

30.11.19  Testing:    
 
30.11.19.1  ROUTINE TESTS  – The manufacturer should have NABL accredited test lab to conduct below tests. 
 

(a)   
Measurement of winding resistance 
(b)   
Measurement of voltage ratio and check of voltage vector relationship 
(c)    
Measurement of impedance of voltage (principal tapping), short circuit impedance and  load 
loss. 
(d)   
Measurement of no load loss and current 
(e)    
Separate source voltage withstand test 
(f)    
Induced overvoltage withstand test ( 2 times the rated voltage) 
(g)   
2kV withstand test for all wiring 
 
30.11.19.2  TYPE TESTS   
 

(a) 
Lightning impulse test  -  Test certificate  of  similar design shall be furnished 
 
(b) 
Temperature rise test - To be done on the transformer at third party or NABL accredited lab 

 
(c) 
Zero phase sequence impedance test - Test certificate of similar design shall be furnished 

 

(d) 
Respective Current density & Flux Density shall be so as to suit the required No load & loss 
levels 
 

(e) 
All the measurement of losses shall be carried out by digital meters of class 0.5or better 
accuracy and should be certified by the manufacturer. If the losses measured are found to be 
out of tolerance band as stated in Standard and guaranteed losses declared by manufacturer , 
the same shall be attributed to the manufacturer as per capitalization formula till the end of 
warranty period . In extreme conditions the customer has got holds absolute rights to reject the 
lot and terminate the contract of vendor. One transformer of each rating, selected randomly 
from the lot shall to sent For measurement of losses, declared by vendor ( on data sheet) at 
third party / any NABL accredited lab.. In case loss figures deviates more than tolerances 
specified in IS 2026, purchaser reserves rights of terminating the contract of vendor.  

 

(f) 
Also Manufacturer should have Short circuit test report for similar or Higher rating transformer 
(Any rating). If SC test report is not available, then bidder has to conduct the same without any 
extra cost to the purchaser. 
 
30.11.19.3  ACEEPTANCE TEST   
 

(a) 
In case loss figures deviates more than tolerances specified in IS, purchaser reserves rights of 
terminating the contract of vendor 
(b)  
Oil Leakage test for acceptance shall be conducted at pressure of 0.35kg/sq.cm for one hour. 
(c)  
Checking of weights, Dimensions, fitting and accessories, tank sheet thickness, oil quantity, 
material, finish and workmanship, Physical verification of core coil assembly and or calculations 
of flux density on one unit of each rating of the offered lot with reference to the GTP and 
contract drawings. 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 331 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
30.11.19.4  REJECTION:  Department may reject any transformer if during tests or service any of the following 

conditions arise: 
 

(a)  
No load loss exceeds the guaranteed value greater than tolerance limit mentioned in IS2026 
(b)  
Load loss exceeds the guaranteed value greater than tolerance limit mentioned in IS2026 
(c)  
Impedance value differs the guaranteed value by + 10% or more 
(d)  
Winding temperature rise exceeds the specified value by 5°C 
(e)  
Transformer fails on impulse test 
(f)  
Transformer fails on power frequency voltage withstand test 
(g)  
Transformer is proved to have been manufactured not in accordance with the agreed 
specification. 
(h)  
The PURCHASER reserves the right to retain the rejected transformer and take it into service 
until the SELLER replaces, at no extra cost to PURCHASE, the defective transformer by a new 
acceptable transformer. 
 
30.11.19.5  INSPECTION & TESTING: - 
 

(a)  
The transformer shall be tested / inspected by the Rep of Accepting Officer in OEMs 
manufractures unit. Purchaser may appoint recognized testing authority like CPRI/ERDA with 
their instruments & engineer’s team and measure no load loss, load loss and percentage 
impedance of the transformer at supplier’s works. The contractor shall give intimation in 
advance to GE. The contractor shall give them full co-operation during their stay & testing at 
shop floor. The losses & impedance values so obtained will be considered as final.  

(b)  
The bidder shall agree to the results. At his discretion, purchaser may also decide to take any 
transformer to third party labs like CPRI or ERDA for measurement of no load loss, load loss 
and percentage impedance of the transformer. The losses & impedance values so obtained will 
be considered as final. The bidder shall agree to the results. 

(c)  
Pre-core loss measurement test should be conducted on 1 no. unit each lot. 

(d)  
Tan delta measurement value should be less than 0.5. 

(e)  
Detail Loss calculation shall be submit during Tendering and Execution of the project Minimum 
stray loss should be 15% of I2R loss at 75Degree 

(f)  
Bidder should have in-house NABL accredited testing facility. 

30.11.19.6  STAGE INSPECTION; S tage inspection of built up core (in horizontal/vertical position), windings, tank 

and radiators shall be carried-out as detailed below :- 

 
a)  
Core : 
i)  
Measurement of flux Density. 
ii)  
Tests of CRGO sample taken from the core shall be carried-out for Carlite test 
(Resistance Measurement), Watt Loss Test, Lamination Thickness & Aging Tests. 
iii)  
Physical inspection for quality of workmanship. 
iv)  
Slitting/Cutting of core at manufactures works or in customer representative presence 
    b)  
Windings: 

i)  
Measurement of Cross-sectional area for current density. 
ii)  
The measurement of weight of bare copper/cover copper by Resistance Method, 
ID/OD method, Per unit length methods. 
iii)  
Tests maybe carried out on sample of copper for assessing its quality. 
c)  
Tank: 
i)  
Vacuum Test. 
ii)  
Pressure Test. 
iii)  
DP Test 
iv)  
Peel-off Test. 
v)  
Test on welded joints such as X-Ray testing shall be carried out on minimum one unit. 
Note: For permissible deflection as per CBIP ultrasonic for pressure and vacuum test, Horizontal 
width shall be taken between nearest stiffeners. 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 332 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

d)  
Radiators: Radiator shall be routine/type tests at sub-supplier works as per relevant standards. 
e)  
Core-coil assembly – Weighing of core-coil assembly will be done as stage inspection & weight 
should not be less than approved drawings 
f) 
Drying process: Drying process of Active part of transformer (Core-coil assembly) should be 
done under vacuum heating. 
g) 
Shipping & Logistics:  If shipping weight of the transformer goes beyond 32 Ton, Hydraulic 
trailor must be used as per government rules. 
h) 
Bar coding or QR coding: Bar coding should be done for main unit & all loose accessories for 
easily tracking .and to avoid any miss-handling/ transportation theft. 
30.11.20 Recommended painting: Painting shall be as per manufractures instructions with paint Scheme of PS 4 

– Epoxy –PU coated on surface of oil contact and external surfaces as per manufracturers instructions.   
30.11.21 Apart from above said specification each transformer will have following accessories. Cost of 

these accessories are deemed to be included in the cost quoted by the contractor.  

 

[a]  
Cable box of HT side for XLPE Cables.  
[b]  
Cable box on LT side to be accommodate bus duct/Cable Box 410 volts.  
[c]  
Conservator with drainpipe.  
[d]  
Silica gel dehydrating breather.  
[e]  
Bottom channel  
[f]  
Thermometer pocket.  
[g]  
Oil drain valve at bottom. [h] Oil level gauge.  
[j]  
Air release plug.  
[k]  
Oil filter pipe with flange and dummy cover, precaution, conservator for filling the oil. [l] Lifting 
lugs – 2 Nos.  
[m]  
Earthing terminals – 2 Nos.  
[n]  
Rating and terminal marking plate. [o] Polar unit directional – 4 Nos.  
[p]  
PRD (Pressure relief Device) 
[q]  
Top filter valve  
[r]  
Top oil temperature indicator  
[s]  
Double float buchholz relay with alarm and grip contact. [t] Magnetic oil level gauge with low oil 
level alarm.  
[u]  
Winding temperature indicator with current transformer and heater coil.  
[v]  
Transformer will be supplied complete with all first filling of oil conforming to IEC 
62770. Subsequent filtering of oil shall be carried out as required till issue of completion 
certificate by GE without extra cost to Government. 

 
30.11.22  
LOSS CAPITALISATION: T he design of transformer shall be such that annual cost of losses is 
minimum. For the purpose of comparing the losses will be capitalized by adding to the total cost of 
other item. A sum shall be worked out at the following rates.  

 

(a)  
Copper losses  - Rs. 90, 000/ KW  

 
(b)  
Iron losses 
 -   Rs. 2, 20, 000/ KW  
 
30.11.22.1 While suppliers in transformer to the department tenderer should note that copper losses and Iron 

losses and not exceeded the limit stated in schedule ‘A’ or of more than 1% [one percent]. A 
compensation shall be deducted from unit price in accordance with the cost as given above. 
 
30.12 
VACUUM CIRCUIT BREAKER AND IN CUBICLE 
 
30.12.1 
NOMENCLATURE:   
 
30.12.1.1 VCB shall be as specified in BOQ along with Buscoupler Panel and complete accessories. 
 

30.12.1.2  The VCB panel shall be tested / inspected by the Rep of Accepting Officer in OEMs manufractures 

unit. The contractor shall give intimation in advance to GE. The contractor shall give them full co-
operation to the rep of Accepting Officer for required inspection / testing of VCB.   
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 333 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
31.0  
TYPE TESTED LOW VOLTAGE POWER CONTROL CENTRE:  

 

31.1 
This section covers the detailed requirements of medium voltage switchboard for 415 volts, 3 phase, 
50 Hz, 4 wire system.  

31.2   
STANDARDS AND CODES:  Updated and current Indian Standard Specifications and Codes of Practice 
will apply to the equipment and the work covered by the scope of this contract.  

Low Voltage Switchgear Assemblies 
    IEC 61439-1/2 
Low Voltage Switchgear & control gear       IEC 60947 – 1/2/4 
Low Voltage Power Factor Control Panels    IEC 61921 
Degree of Protection of Enclosures             IEC 60529 IS 2147: 1962 
Internal Arc    – IEC 61641 
31.3  
SWITCHBOARDS 

31.3.1   General:  The LV switchboards shall be as per the standards IEC 61439-1 and 2. The switchboards and 

the associated equipment including switchgear, control gear, Busbar supports, Busbar orientation, Busbar 
links etc shall be similar in construction to the assembly which has undergone the type test. The drawings 
of the type-tested assemblies shall be made available for inspection.  

31.3.2   The designs of the switchboards should be with switchgear manufacturer, and all the mechanical 

drawings must be available in the factory beforehand. 

 

31.3.3   Switchboards shall have a short circuit level withstand as per Schedule of Quantities and drawings. 

 

31.3.4   The enclosures shall be designed to take care of normal stress as well as abnormal electro-mechanical 

stress due to short circuit conditions. All covers and doors provided shall offer adequate safety to 
operating persons and provide ingress protection of IP 42 unless otherwise stated. Ventilating openings 
and vent outlets, if provided, shall be arranged such that same ingress protection of IP 42 is retained. 
Suitable pressure relief devices shall be provided to minimize danger to operator during internal fault 
conditions.   

 

31.3.5   The switchboard along with ACBs and connections should have been type tested design at  CPRI  

/Independent international test house for short circuit, temperature rise, protective earth short circuit test 
and dielectric tests of the ratings required. 

 

31.3.6   For operator safety IP2 X (touch proof) protection to be available even after opening the feeder 

compartment door. The compartmentalization to be achieved by using metal separators or screens, use of 
PVC / Hylam / FRP / GRP sheets shall not be allowed.  

 

31.3.7   As specified in the BOM the switchboard shall be Form 4b as per IEC 

 

31.4   Switchboard Configuration 

 

31.4.1 The Switchboard shall be configured with Air Circuit Breakers, MCCB's, MCB’s and other equipment as 

called for in the schedule of quantities.          

31.4.2   The MCCBs shall be arranged in multi-tier formation whereas the Air Circuit Breakers shall be arranged in 

Single or Double tier formation only to facilitate operation and maintenance. 
 

31.4.3   The Switchboards shall be of adequate size with a provision of spare space to accommodate possible 

future additional switch gear.  

 
31.4.4   If supplied by assembler, only OEM name shall be mentioned on top of each of the columns of 

switchboard. 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 334 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

 

 
31.5   Constructional Features 

 
31.5.1  The Switchboards shall be metal clad totally enclosed, floor mounted free standing type of modular 

extensible design suitable for indoor mounting.  

31.5.2     Switchboards construction shall employ the principle of compartmentalized and segregation for each 

circuit.   
31.5.3   Incomer and bus section panels or sections shall be separate and independent and shall not be wired with 

sections required for feeder. The incomer panel shall be suitable for receiving bus trunking or LV cable of 
size specified.  Switchboards shall be made up of requisite vertical sections, which when coupled 
together, shall form continuous dead front switchboards.   
 
31.5.3.1  
Switchboard shall be readily extensible on both sides by addition of vertical sections after removal of 
the end covers.  

 

31.5.3.2  
The switchboards shall be designed for providing the stated performance at an ambient temperature 
of 40C and humidity (RH=85%) typical of tropical conditions as specified. Ease of inspections, 
cleaning and repairs while maintaining continuity of operation shall be provided. 

 

31.5.3.3  
Metal based Poly urethane foam gaskets between all adjacent units and beneath all covers shall be 
provided to render the joints dust and vermin proof to provide a degree of protection of IP 54 as 
stipulated in schedule of quantities. The unused openings within the switchboards shall be closed 
using suitable grommets. Degree of Protection shall be (IP42 Upto 1600A) and IP54 above 1600A 

 

31.5.3.4  
Special care to be taken to ensure effective earthing of the frame and doors of the switchboards 

 

31.5.3.5  
Each vertical section shall be provided with a rear or side cable chamber housing the cable end 
connections and power/control cable terminations.  There should be generous availability of space for 
ease of installation and maintenance with adequate safety for working in one section without coming 
into contract with any live parts.  The design of the switchboard shall allow standard extension 
chambers if required to accommodate cables. 

 

31.5.3.6  
Some switchboards may be required to be installed against the wall, for such application-documented 
designs shall be available. 

 

31.5.3.7  
Switchboard panels and cubicles shall be fabricated with CRCA Sheet Steel of thickness not less than 
2.0 mm and shall be folded and braced as necessary to provide a rigid support for all components. 
The doors and covers shall be fabricated from CRCA sheet steel of thickness not less than 2 mm. 
Joints of any kind in sheet metal shall be seam welded and all welding slag ground off and welding 
pits wiped smooth with plumber metal. All main load bearing members preferable 9 fold structures 
shall be GI with 275 GSM. 

 

31.5.3.8  
All panels and covers shall be properly fitted and square with the frame. The holes in the panel shall 
be correctly positioned.  

 

31.5.3.9  
Switchboard shall be provided with “Danger” notice plate in Telugu, English conforming to relevant 
Indian Standards.  
 

 
31.5.3.10  
Main PCC shall be certified for Internal arc withstand of 65kA for 0.4sec as per IEC 61641. The panel 
shall be tested and certified for internal arc withstand in all three chambers: Horizontal Bus Bar 
Chamber, Vertical Bus Bar Chamber / Cable Alley, Functional Unit Chamber. 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 335 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
31.5.4   Switchboard Dimensional Limitations 

 

31.5.4.1 
The overall height of the switchboard shall be limited to 2400 mm for all the Bus bar ratings and   type 
of switchboards. Panel should have integral base frame of 75mm, hence total panel height should not 
be more than 2475mm.  

31.5.4.2  
The height of operating handle push buttons etc shall be restricted between 300 mm and 2000 mm 
from finished floor level. 

 

31.5.4.3  
Other dimensional limits if any are specified separately. 
 

31.5.5   Switchboard Compartmentalization 
 

31.5.5.1 For compartmentalized switchboards, separate totally enclosed compartments shall be provided for 

horizontal busbars, vertical busbars, ACBs, MCCBs, and cable alloys.   

 

31.5.5.2  
The main board shall be with Form 4b Construction with metallic shrouding only, FRP is not   
acceptable. 

31.5.2.3 Earthed metal or insulated shutters shall be provided between draw out and fixed portion of the 

switchgear such that no lives parts are accessible with equipment drawn out. Degree of protection within 
compartments shall  be at least IP 2X.  

31.5.2.4   Sheet steel hinged lockable doors for each separate compartment shall be provided and duly interlocked 

with the breaker in "ON" and "OFF" position.  
 

31.5.2.5   For all Circuit Breakers separate and adequate compartments shall be provided for accommodating 

instruments, indicating lamps, control contactors and control MCB etc. These shall be accessible for 
testing and maintenance without any danger of accidental contact with live parts of the circuit breaker, 
busbars and connections. 
 

31.5.2.6   For Some MCCB feeders for critical loads like UPS, it may be required to have operation only after 

opening the door, all other facilities like pad lockable rotary handle to be provided for such feeder. It shall 
be possible to do this change during execution of order 
 

31.5.2.7   Each switchgear cubicles shall be fitted with label in front and back identifying the circuit, switchgear 

type, rating and duty. All operating device shall be in front of switchgear only.  
 

31.5.2.8   A horizontal wire way with screwed cover shall be provided at the top to take interconnecting control 

wiring between vertical sections. 
 

31.5.2.9   Separate cable compartments running the height of the switchboard in the case of front access boards 

shall be provided for incoming and outgoing cables.  
 

31.5.2.10  
Cable compartments shall be of adequate size for easy termination of all incoming and outgoing 
cables entering from bottom or top.  The construction shall include necessary and adequate and proper 
support shall be provided in cable compartments to support and clamping the cable in the cable alley / 
cable chamber.  
.         

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 336 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
31.6   Switchboard Bus Bars 

 

31.6.1   Busbars shall be made of high conductivity, and high strength Aluminum E91 grade Busbars shall be of 

rectangular cross sections, not more than 6mm thickness better suitable for full load current for phase 
bus bars and half/ full rated current for neutral bus bar or as stipulated in schedule of quantities. Busbar 
shall be suitable to withstand the stresses of fault level as specified in schedule of quantities .  

 

31.6.2   Main Horizontal bus bar and Neutral bus bar must be enclosed in the same bus compartment. 

 
31.6.3  The bus bar system may comprise of a system of main horizontal bus bars and auxiliary vertical bus bars 

run in bus bar alloy on either side in which the circuit could be arranged with front access for cable 
entrances 

31.6.4   The bus bars shall be supported on non-breakable, non-hygroscopic epoxy resin or glass fiber reinforced 

polymer insulated supports able to withstand operating temperature of 110 O  C at regular intervals, to 
withstand the forces arising from a fault level as stipulated in schedule of quantities.  The material and 
the spacing of the Busbar supports should be same as per the type tested assembly 

 

31.6.5   Auxiliary buses for control power supply, space heater power supply or any other specified service shall 

be provided. These buses shall be insulated, adequately supported and sized to suit specific requirement.  
The material for auxiliary supply bus will be insulated electrolytic copper. Wires. 

 

31.6.6   Clearances between phases should be in line with IEC. 
 
31.7   Switchboard Interconnection  
31.7.1 All connection and tap offs shall be through adequately sized connectors appropriate for fault level at 

location.  This shall include tap off to feeders and instrument/control transformers.   

31.7.2   For unit ratings up to 250 amps, PVC insulated 105 dg withstand, copper conductor wires of adequate 

size to carry full load current shall be used. The terminations of such interconnections shall be crimped. 
Solid connections shall be used for all rating of above 250 amps. 
31.7.3   All connections, tapping, clamping, shall be made in an approved manner to ensure minimum contact 

resistance. All connections shall be firmly bolted and clamp with even tension.  Before assembly joint 
surfaces shall be filed or finished to remove burrs, dents and oxides and silvered to maintain good 
continuity at all joints. All screws, bolts, washers shall be zinc plated. Only 8.8 grade nuts and bolts shall 
be used for bus bar connections.  
31.8  
 Draw out Features of Circuit Breakers:  Air Circuit Breakers shall be provided in fully draw out, unless 
otherwise stated. These cubicles shall be such that draw out is possible without disconnection of the wires 
and cables. The power and control circuits shall have self-aligning and self-isolating contacts. Mechanical 
latches shall be integrated in ACB at service, test and isolated position to ensure that Breaker is firmly 
latched in respective position. It shall not be possible to move the breaker from the position unless latch is 
manually operated. 

31.8   Instrument Accommodation 
 

31.9.1 All voltmeter and ammeter and other instruments shall be flushed mounted type of size 96 sq.mm 

conforming to class 1.5 to IS 1248 for accuracy. Meters shall be protected with MCBs. 

 
31.9.2   Instruments and indicating lamps shall not be mounted on the Circuit Breaker Compartment door for which 

a separate and adequate compartment shall be provided and the instrumentation shall be accessible for 
testing and maintenance without danger of accidental contact with live parts of the Switchboard. 

 
31.9.3  
For MCCBs, instruments and indicating lamps can be provided on the compartment doors.  
 
31.9.4   The current transformers for metering and for protection shall be mounted on the solid copper / 

aluminium bus bars with proper supports. 

 
31.9.5   On all the incomers of switch boards ON/OFF indicators lamps shall be provided suitable for operation on 

AC 230 volts supply. All lamps shall be protected by MCBs.  

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 337 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
31.10   Metering (Specifications for Main PCC and DG Sync. Panel) 

 

31.10.1   Incomers and outgoing feeder shall be provided with comprehensive power meters capable of four 

quadrant operation an equipped with graphical display for A , V, Pf , Hz ,KW , KVA, KVAr, KWh, KVarh, 
demand values , THD on current and Voltages 

 

31.10.2   Meters shall be capable of reading magnitudes of individual harmonics (odd) up to the 31 st  order. 

Measurements that reflect the power quality such as Total harmonic distortion and Total demand 
distortion shall be available. There shall also be provision for waveform capture for the purpose of 
analysis of event. 
 
31.10.3   There shall be provision within the meter for set point driven alarms and at least 2 digital alarms with 1s 

time stamping. It should be possible for alarms to be programmed and combined to trigger digital outputs 
and mechanical relays. Further, there shall be a historical data log of alarms with date and time 
stampings. 

 
31.10.4   There shall be provision of at least one Ethernet port on the meters provided on Incomers of Sync Panel, 

Main PCC and LT Kiosks for communication on Modbus TCP 

 
31.10.5   The meter shall be preferable of standard front dimensions of 96 mm x 96 mm with graphical anti-glare 

display and backlighting for superior viewing even in extreme lighting conditions and viewing angles. For 
Incomers, it shall be possible to detach the display and secure it to a convenient location on the panel for 
ergonomic viewership. 

 

31.10.6   The performance of meters with Ethernet port shall comply with IEC 61557-12. Accuracy shall be as 

follows: 

Active Energy (as per IEC62053-22): Class 0.5S 

Reactive Energy (as per IEC62053-24): Class 2 

31.10.7   The multi-function meter installed to monitor the mains incomer(s) of the installation shall comply to 

Power Quality measurement standard IEC 61000-4-30. Further, for the incomers the meters shall have 
disturbance direction detection to clearly identify the source of any power quality disturbance as 
emanating from within the facility or from external sources on the grid. 
   

31.11 Wiring:  All wiring for relays and meters shall be with PVC insulated copper conductor wires. The wiring 

shall be coded and labeled with approved ferrules for identification. The minimum size of copper 
conductor control wires shall be 2.5 sq. mm. Runs of wires shall be neatly bunched and suitably 
supported and clamped. Means shall be provided for easy identification of wires. Identification ferrules 
shall use at both end of wires. All control wires meant for external connections are to be brought out on a 
terminal board .  The cables and control wires shall be suitable for withstanding 105 deg C. 

31.12 Communication:  Communication architecture shall be published as part of tested validated and 

documented architecture (TVDA) solution from the manufacturer. Part numbers and configuration for 
power up and operation of the modules comprising the architecture shall be clearly detailed in the design 
documentation of the OEM. Assembler shall produce declaration of conformity to TVDA counter signed by 
the OEM. A single Ethernet port shall be provided for every panel for integration to installation LAN. Refer 
to typical schematic in Appendix A. Low Voltage 24V DC power source may be needed for providing 
power to the gateways / switches and other smart components. The same shall be provided from a ripple 
free SMPS source as approved by the OEM. Alternatively, a DC bus internal to the panels may supplied 
from external redundant UPS. 

31. 13 Space Heaters:  Anti- condensation heaters shall be fitted in each cubicle together with an ON/OFF 

isolating switch suitable for electrical operation at 230 volts A.C 50 Hz single phase of sufficient capacity 
to raise the internal ambient temperature by 5 O  C. The electrical apparatus so protected shall be designed 
so that the maximum permitted rise in temperature is not exceeded if the heaters are energized while the 
switchboard is in operation. As a rule, the heaters shall be placed at the bottom of the cubicle. 

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 338 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
31. 14 Ventilation Fans:  The Switchboard shall be provided with panel mounting type ventilation fans in each 

panel with switchgear rated for 4500 A and above. The fan shall be interlocked with switchgear operation. 
The degree pf enclosure protection to be maintained even with fans. 

31.15 Earthing:  Continuous earth bus sized for prospective fault current to be provided with arrangement for 

connecting to station earth at two points. Hinged doors / frames to be connected to earth through 
adequately sized flexible braids.  

31.16 Sheet Steel Treatment and Painting:  Sheet steel used in the fabrication of switchboards shall 
undergo a rigorous cleaning and surface treatment seven tank process comprising of alkaline degreasing, 
descaling in dilute sulphuric acid and a recognized phosphating process after which a coat of primer paint 
compactly with the final paint shall be applied over the treated surface.  Final paint coat of oven baked powder 
coating, of minimum 50-micron thickness, of sheet approved by Engineer-in-Charge shall then be provided. 

31.17 Name Plates and Labels:  Suitable engraved white on black name plates and identification labels of 
metal for all Switchboards and Circuits shall be provided. These shall indicate the feeder number and feeder 
designation. 

31.18 Type test reports:  Switchboard configurations offered shall be CPRI /Independent international test 

house tested for all the tests as per IEC61439-1 and 2 and internal arc tests as per IEC 61641 for all 
three functional compartments.  Copies of the test certificates shall be submitted with the tender.  

31.19 Testing at Works:  Copies of type test carried out at ACB/ MCCB manufacturers works and routine tests 

carried out at the switchboard fabricators shop shall be furnished along with the delivery of the 
switchboards. Engineer-in-Charge reserves the right to get the switchboard inspected by their 
representative at fabricators works prior to dispatch to site to witness the followings. 

a) 
Physical variation and dimensional check  
b) 
Verification of bill of material  
c) 
Functional check  
d) 
HV test  
e) 
IR test  
 

31.20 LOW VOLTAGE SWITCHGEAR 
 

31.20.1 LT AIR CIRCUIT BREAKERS 

31.20.2 The circuit breakers shall be of the air break type, robust and compact design suitable for indoor 

mounting and shall comply with the requirement IEC 60947-1 and 2. Short Circuit capacity shall be 
Icu=Ics=Icw (for 1 sec.) = 65kA or for the value specified in the BOQ. The same is stipulated in schedule 
of quantities. Heat loss per pole shall be low. 

31.20.3   The breaker shall comply with the isolation function requirement of IEC 60 947-2 section 7.12 to be 

marked as suitable for isolation / disconnection to facilitate safety of operating personal while the 
breaker is in use. Rated Insulation voltage shall be 1000V and Impulse withstand voltage shall be 12 kV. 

 

31.20.4   The breaker shall provide class II insulation between the front panel and internal power circuits to avoid 

any accidental contact with the live main current carrying path with the front fascia open. 
 
31.20.4.1  
The ACB shall have front face with Insulation Class II for safety as per IEC 60947-2 allowing class 
II installations with breaker control from outside 

 

31.20.4.2  
Protective devices, metering, CTs, PTs, push buttons and indicating lamps shall be provided as 
per schedule of quantities. 

 
31.20.4.3  
ACB must be suitable for operation in pollution degree 4 as per IEC 60664-1 and also conform to 
stringent environmental directives as in ROHS and WEEE norms 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 339 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
31.20.5    Constructional Features:  The Air Circuit Breaker shall be moulded case design and with single frame 

up to 4000A for uniformity in the switchboard and take care of replacement of any lower rated ACB with 
the higher rated ACB in the event of breakdown. 

 

31.20.5.1  
The Circuit Breaker cradle shall be designed and constructed to permit smooth withdrawal and 
insertion. The movement shall be free of jerks, easy to operate. Mechanical Latch to be provided to 
identify the Isolated, test & service position of breaker to prevent over racking. 

 

31.20.5.2  
Arc chutes shall be provided for each pole, and these shall be suitable for being lifted out for the 
inspection of the main and the arcing contacts. Arc Chute Cover shall be fitted with integral stainless steel 
filters to absorb gases which are released in the event of short circuit interruption to ensure safety of the 
installation. 

 

31.20.5.3  
The circuit breaker shall have indication of mechanical wear of contacts enabling visible indication 
of contact life.  

 

31.20.5.4  
Vertical self-aligning cluster type isolating contacts shall be provided for the Circuit Breaker, with 
automatically operated shutters to screen live cluster contacts when the Breaker is withdrawn from the 
cubicle. Sliding connections including those for the auxiliary contacts and control wiring shall also be of 
the self-aligning type. The fixed portion of the sliding connections shall have easy access for maintenance 
purposes.  

 

31.20.5.5  
All ACB irrespective of rating, shall be equipped with rear vertical type of terminals for both top 
and bottom bus bar (VR-VR) orientation only. All adapters/extender links supplied by the manufacturer for 
terminating load or line (bus bars / cable lugs) shall be silver/tin plated. Bare copper / aluminium 
extenders or adapters for the same purpose shall not be permitted. 

 

31.20.5.6  
The cubicle for housing the breaker shall be free standing dead front pattern, fabricated from the 
best quality sheet steel.  

 

31.20.6  
Operating Mechanism 

 

31.20.6.1  
The Circuit Breaker shall be trip free with independent manual spring operated or motor wound 
spring operated mechanism as specified and with mechanical ON/OFF indication. The operating 
mechanism shall be such that the circuit breaker is always free to open immediately once the trip 
coil is energized. 

 

31.20.6.2  
The draw out mechanism shall be part of the fixed frame to reduce the weight of with drawable 
part. Further, each position (service, test and isolated) shall be acknowledged by the operator before 
racking in / moving to the next position. 

 

31.20.6.3  
The closing time shall be less than or equal to 70 ms to ensure faster closing of the breaker. 
Break time shall be less than 30 ms at full short circuit fault capacity to reduce the let through energy in 
the event of severe fault.  

 

31.20.6.4  
The operating handle and mechanical trip push button shall be at the front of and integral with 
the Circuit Breaker. 
 

31.20.6.5  
ACB shall be provided with “Ready to Close” Contact as standard feature to check in the event of 
closing under the following conditions: 

 

a. ACB is in OFF position 

b. Spring Mechanism is Charged 

c. Opening order is not present 

d. Device completely racked in 

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 340 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
31.20.6.6  
The Circuit Breaker shall have the following three distinct and separate positions which shall be 
indicated on the face of the panel.   The breaker shall get latched in each of three position namely 
Service, Test and Isolated, operator to de latch before racking in/out to other position 

 

 
"Service" -- Both main and secondary isolating contacts closed 

 
"Test" -- Main isolating contacts open and secondary isolating contacts closed 

 
"Isolated" -- Both main and secondary isolating contacts open 

Hence there shall be 3 distinct locking positions on the ACB for all 3 conditions as above 

31.20.6.7  
There must be provision for storing the racking handle (when not in use) within the ACB 
 

31.20.7  
Circuit Breaker Interlocking 
 

31.20.7.1  
Sequence type strain free interlocks shall be provided to ensure the following: 
 

31.20.7.2  
It shall not be possible for the Breaker to be withdrawn from the cubicle when in the "ON" 
position. To achieve this, suitable mechanism shall be provided to lock the Breaker in the tripped position 
before the Breaker is isolated.  
 

31.20.7.3  
It shall not be possible for the Breaker to be switched "ON" until it is either in the fully inserted 
position or, for testing purposes, it is in the fully isolated position.  
 

31.20.7.4  
It shall not be possible for the Circuit Breaker to be racked in unless it is in the OFF position. 
 

31.20.7.5  
A safety latch shall be provided to ensure that the movement of the Breaker, as it is withdrawn, is 
checked before it is completely out of the cubicle, thus preventing its accidental fall due to its weight.  
 

31.20.7.6  
Mechanical anti-pumping feature shall be incorporated in the ACB.  
 

31.20.8 
Circuit Breaker Auxiliaries 

31.20.8.1  
The Circuit Breaker shall have suitable free / minimum 4 NO/NC auxiliary contacts rated at 10 
amps 415 volts 50 Hz. These contacts shall be approachable from the front for connecting all external 
wiring from the front. They shall close before the main contacts when the Circuit Breaker is racked in and 
vice versa when the Circuit Breaker is Drawn Out of the cubicle. 

31.20.8.2   All electrical auxiliaries, including the spring charging gear motor shall be installable on site without 

requiring adjustment or any tools other than a screw driver 

 

31.20.8.3 The closing release, shunt trip release and under voltage release shall be fixed in the front and secured 

on a metal plate with continuity to external earth in all circumstances. 

31.20.8.4  
The shunt trip coil shall be continuous rated with low holding VA. Momentary rated coils and/or 
mechanical latching type coils shall not be permitted for shunt trip and under voltage releases. 
 
31.20.8.5   It shall be possible to connect all control and auxiliary wiring from the front of the circuit breaker.  

 
31.20.8.6   There must be provision of Making Current Release operable in half a cycle (10 ms or less) for 
incomer breakers if rated for short circuit capacity of 65kA or higher. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 341 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
31.20.9  
Circuit breaker Releases (For ACB in Main PCC and Sync. Panel) 
 

31.20.9.4  
The Air Circuit Breakers shall have microprocessor release with composite Rogowski based 
current sensors for very high linearity in measurement and protection functions. 

 

31.20.9.5  
The circuit breaker shall be equipped with a safety interlock which keeps the breaker open if the 
protection release is not fitted / installed. 

 

31.20.9.6  
The microprocessor based release shall have adjustable over load (70% to 100% of breaker 
rating), short circuit protection (1.5 times to 10 times over load setting), and adjustable earth fault 
protection (10% to 70% of rated current) with adjustable time delay.  

 
31.20.9.7  
Zone selective interlocking feature shall be provided to enable interconnection with protection 
releases of upstream and downstream devices to optimize trip times and associated stresses on the 
system during short circuits or earth faults. It should be possible to store tripping history of last ten faults. 

 
31.20.9.8  
The protection release shall have adjustable neutral protection from 50% to 100% of rated 
current or long time setting of the protection release. 

 
31.20.9.9  
The ACB shall have display of all the metered data such as phase currents, phase and line 
voltages, demand values, on a handheld HMI visualized on a smart phone for user convenience. The 
energy readings shall conform to Class 1.0 as certified by third party agency. Bar graphs to show 
percentage loading of the breaker shall be available on the HMI to enable viewership from beyond the 
limited arc flash protection boundary. There shall be separate LED indications on the protection release 
for trip on overload, short circuit current and earth fault. In pursuance of the above, it is preferable to 
have the said HMI readily available in the form of an app configured for Android OS / iPhone. 

 
31.20.9.10  
The overload setting shall have a thermal memory feature lasting for not less than 20 minutes 
before and after tripping. 

 

31.20.9.11  
The protection settings of the release should be possible from hand held smart phone after 
pairing the devices over Bluetooth. Alternatively, settings of protection release through navigation buttons 
presented on the fascia of the release is acceptable. However, toggle type DIP switches for setting shall 
not be permitted. In the event of a total blackout, it shall be possible to retrieve event data from release 
through Near Field Communication. 

 
31.20.9.12  
The protection releases shall be capable of communication through a published interface 
hardware architecture over the Ethernet using Modbus TCP protocol. The parameters that shall be 
communicated are: ON/OFF/Trip status, Alarms, metering data, trip history and contact wear indications. 

 
31.20.9.13  
 It shall be possible to remotely control the ON / OFF ACB through low power digital signaling 
enabled over the Ethernet. For mains incomers, it shall also be possible to communicate the position of 
breaker in its chassis (Connected/Disconnected) 

 
31.20.10  
Circuit breaker Releases (For ACB in Sub Mains and Peripheral Distribution) 
 

31.20.10.4  
The Air Circuit Breakers shall have microprocessor release with composite Rogowski based 
current sensors for very high linearity in measurement and protection functions. 

 

31.20.10.5  
The circuit breaker shall be equipped with a safety interlock which keeps the breaker open if the 
protection release is not fitted / installed. 

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 342 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
31.20.10.6  
The microprocessor based release shall have adjustable over load (70% to 100% of breaker 
rating), short circuit protection (1.5 times to 10 times over load setting), and adjustable earth fault 
protection (10% to 70% of rated current) with adjustable time delay.  

 
31.20.10.7  
Zone selective interlocking feature shall be provided to enable interconnection with protection 
releases of upstream and downstream devices to optimize trip times and associated stresses on the 
system during short circuits or earth faults. It should be possible to store tripping history of last ten faults. 

 
31.20.10.8  
The protection release shall have adjustable neutral protection from 50% to 100% of rated 
current or long time setting of the protection release. 

 
31.20.10.9  
The ACB shall have LCD Display of phase currents, phase and line voltages, current demand 
values. The error in readings shall not exceed +/- 1.5% from the true values. Prominent LED bar graph to 
show percentage loading of the breaker from 40% to 100% shall be available on the release to enable 
viewership from beyond the limited arc flash protection boundary. There shall be separate LED indications 
on the protection release for trip on overload, short circuit current and earth fault. 

 
31.20.10.10  
The overload setting shall have a thermal memory feature lasting for not less than 20 minutes 
before and after tripping. 

 

31.20.10.11  
The setting of the ACB should be possible with dial settings with a screwdriver. Settings of 
protection release through toggle type DIP switches shall not be permitted. 

 
31.20.10.12  
The protection release of the incomer ACB shall be capable of communication through a 
published interface hardware architecture over the Ethernet using Modbus TCP protocol. The parameters 
that shall be communicated are: ON/OFF/Trip status, Alarms, metering data, trip history and contact wear 
indications. 

 
31.20.10.13  
 It shall be possible to remotely control the ON / OFF ACB through low power digital signaling 
enabled over the Ethernet. For mains incomers, it shall also be possible to communicate the position of 
breaker in its chassis (Connected/Disconnected) 

 
31.21    Circuit Breaker Communication :  The circuit breaker shall be able to report the ON/OFF/TRIP status 
to a remote location by communicating over the Ethernet through Modbus TCP protocol. To this extent, all 
accessories that form part of the breaker communication hardware and architecture shall be pre-wired and 
compatible for communication over the Ethernet. A sample configuration of the proposed communication 
architecture is published in the Annexure herewith. Each Air Circuit Breaker shall be addressable over the Ethernet 
through a unique IP address to access data related to status of the operation (On/Off/Trip), metered data and 
fault diagnostics. The Ethernet wiring may be done using daisy chain topology. It should be possible to generate 
e-mail messages on alarms and status from the ACB. It is recommended that the ACB be equipped with native 
Ethernet Ports (dual for looping) to reduce wiring complexity and improve. 

31.23 Earthing :  The frame of the Circuit Breaker shall be positively earthed when the Circuit Breaker is racked 
into the cubicle. There shall be provision for connection of panel earth at clearly marked locations on the metal 
frame of the cubicle. 

31.24   MOULDED CASE CIRCUIT BREAKERS 

 

31.24.1 General  

31.24.1.1 The circuit breakers shall comply with the requirement of IEC 60947 -2. MCCBs shall be suitable for 

nominal voltage of 3 phase 690 Volts AC 50 HZ supply. 

31.24.1.2   The circuit breaker shall comply with the isolation function requirement of IEC 60947-2 section 7.1.2 to 

be marked as suitable for isolation / disconnection to facilitate safety of operating personnel while the 
breaker is in use.  

 

31.24.1.2.1   The circuit breaker shall provide class II insulation between the front cover and internal power 

circuits to avoid any accidental contact with the live main current carrying path with the front cover 
open.  

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 343 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
31.24.1.3  
The MCCBs shall be of double break contact system only to ensure very low let through energy 
during severe faults. Legacy designs of single break contact mechanisms shall not be acceptable. Double 
break design shall have two arc chambers per phase to effectively quench the arcs and lower the severity 
of fault impact. 

 

31.24.2  
Constructional features  

 

31.24.2.1  The MCCBs shall be made of halogen free high strength heat resisting and flame retardant thermo 

setting insulating material.  

31.24.2.2    Three phase MCCBs shall have a common handle for simultaneous operation and tripping of all the 

three phases. 

 

31.24.2.3  
The contact tips shall be made of suitable arc resistant sintered alloy. Terminals shall be of liberal 
design with adequate clearances 

 

31.24.2.4  
Suitable arc extinguishing devices shall be provided for each contact. 

 

31.24.3   Operating mechanism  

 

31.24.3.1  
The operating handle of the MCCBs shall be quick make / break, trip free type.  

 

31.24.3.2  
The operating handle of the MCCBs shall have suitable, ON, OFF and TRIPPED indicators. 

 

31.24.3.3 
The operating handle and mechanical trip push button shall be at the front of and integral with the 
circuit breaker 

31.24.4   Operating Characteristics:  MCCBs shall limit the fault currents. The maximum thermal I 2  t shall be 

indicated by the manufacturer. These characteristics shall allow high cascading performance with MCCBs 
/ MCBs downstream.  
 
31.24.4.1    MCCBs shall comprise of the very fast acting mechanism designed to trip the circuit breaker in the 

event of high value short circuit currents.  

 

31.24.4.2   The minimum electrical life of MCCB while switching rated current at rated operational voltage shall be 

as follows and tested for the same in accordance with IEC 60947-2 
 

For Ir < = 250A: 10,000 Operations 

For 250A < Ir < = 400A: 5,000 Operations 

For Ir > 400A: 4,000 Operations 

31.24.4.3  
Earth fault protection, if specified should be an integral part of the breaker, direct operating type 
& with adjustable   set points. Earth leakage protection, where required shall be provided with direct 
actuating means with no requirement of wiring to trip coils. 
 

31.24.4.4  
MCCBs range shall have established and documented discrimination charts readily available.  
  
For main power control center, only plug-in type or motorized MCCBs to be used.  
 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 344 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

31.24.5   Circuit Breaker Interlocking  

MCCBs shall be provided with following interlocking devices.  

  
Handle interlock to prevent unnecessary manipulations of the breaker. 
  
Door interlock to prevent door being opened when the breaker is in ON position 
  
Door interlocking device to open the door even if the breaker is in ON position. 
 

31.24.6 
 MCCB Protection Releases 

31.24.6.1 The MCCB shall be equipped with Thermo-Magnetic protection release up to and including a nominal 

current rating of 320A. The MCCB be shall have electronic microprocessor based protection release for 
ratings of 400A and above.  

31.24.6.2 Regardless of whether the MCCB is of TM release or Microprocessor release type, there must be 

separate provision of potential free contact for indication of trip on electrical faults to distinguish from 
other modes of tripping the MCCB. This contact shall be exclusively actuated when trip occurs because 
electrical fault only. 

31.24.6.2  
The thermo magnetic release, where specified shall have adjustable overload setting from 70% to 
100% of rated current and magnetic setting of at least 8 times rated current. 

 

31.24.6.3  
The microprocessor based release shall have adjustable over load (70% to 100% of rated current 
of the breaker), short circuit protection (2 to 10 times overload setting and fixed time delay not 
exceeding 60 msec), and instantaneous setting of greater than 10 times rated current. It should be 
possible to store tripping history of last ten faults. 
 
31.24.6.4  
The protection release shall have adjustable neutral protection from 50% to 100% of rated 
current or long time setting of the protection release. 

 
31.24.6.5  
The overload setting of microprocessor release shall have a thermal memory feature lasting for 
not less than 20 minutes before and after tripping. 

 

31.24.6.6  
The setting of the MCCB should be possible with dial settings with the help of screwdriver. Toggle 
type dip switches for settings of protection release shall not be permitted. 
 
31.24.6.7  
The manufacturer shall submit charts to ensure full and effective discrimination for the MCCB in 
upstream and downstream combinations up to the short circuit capacity envisaged in the project. Data 
on discrimination of MCCB with even downstream MCB shall also be furnished. Cascading charts shall 
also be furnished for the MCCBs. 
 
31.24.6.8  
Communication from MCCB, where required, shall be through Modbus TCP over Ethernet. In case 
of MCCB having Modbus RS485 port, strictly no more than 8 devices may be looped to a common 
gateway for Ethernet connectivity. 

 

31.24.7 
Circuit breaker auxiliaries  

The circuit breaker shall be provided with following accessories. 

  
Under voltage trip (Where specified) 
  
Shunt trip. (Shunt trip coil must be rated for continuous operation.) 
  
Alarm switch 
  
Auxiliary switch 

 

31.24.8 
Type test certificate:  The contractor shall submit type test certificate from an international 
recognized test house for the circuit breakers offered.  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 345 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
31.25   3 PHASE MOTOR STARTER AND CONTACTORS  
 
31.25.1   The 3phase motor starter shall be of DOL type up to motor rating of 7.5 kW and with a combination of 

MPCB and Contactor strictly as per type 2 coordination of the manufacturer. 
 
31.25.2   The 3phase motor starter shall be of Soft starter type for motor ratings higher than 7.5 kW, unless 

otherwise stated. The starter shall be configured to provide type 2 coordination for open transition 
scheme comprising MPCB, All Contactors, complete with required timer, control circuit wiring, digital 
Ammeter and Voltmeter. 
 
31.25.3    The MPCB used in starters as above shall be equipped with inbuilt overload and short circuit fault 

protection, with minimum 50 kA fault capacity and further provided with extended rotary operating 
handle, 1 NO/NC contact and suitable for termination of cables. 
 
31.25.4    The Contactors shall be of 3 Pole and suitable for operation at 415V. The utilization category shall be 

AC3. Consideration for selection of contactor in type 2 coordination charts shall be IE2/IE3 efficiency class 
motors only and shall be indicated in the technical submissions. 
 
31.25.5   The Contactor shall have a universal coil suitable for energizing from ac/dc control power source and 

have a wide band of at least 2 times the lower voltage limit 
 
31.25.     The control voltage limits for contactor coils shall be as follows:  
 

Operation: 85V to 275V for ac control and 85V to 418V for dc control 
Drop Out: <60V for ac control and <45V for dc control 
 
31.25.1   Further to the above, the contactor shall have a coil with low power consumption, achieving sealing of   

power contacts whilst consuming less than 2 W for contactor ratings up to 60 A 
 

 
31.26  
INTELLIGENT MOTOR PROTECTION RELAY (FOR PROCESS CONTROL FEEDERS)  
 
31.26.1 Intelligent Motor Protection Relay (IMPR) shall provide protection, metering, control, monitoring, and 
historical logging for 1ɸ and 3ɸ AC induction motors up to 100 A using integral current transformers (CTs) or up 
to 810 A using in-puts from external CTs. The current measuring shall be from the integral unit of the controller. 

 
31.26.2 Certification:  UL, CE, IEC/EN 60947-4-1 

 
31.26.3 Operating Temperature: 0°C to 60°C 

 
31.26.4  Conformal Coating: since IMPR is used in harsh environments the conformal coating on IMPR shall be as 
per IEC 60721-3-3 class 3C4 

 
31.26.5 Degree of Protection: IP 20, (IP 54 for HMI) 

 
31.26.6  
Control Voltage: 24VDC or 100-240V AC 50 / 60 Hz 

 
31.26.7   Communication: device should have integrated communication port for the direct link to the higher-level 

system communicating through Modbus TCP / Ethernet IP, Modbus, Profibus DP, Device NET, CAN open. 

Measurement accuracy: 
Line currents @ 1% upto 27 amps and 2 % for higher currents 
Line to line voltage: operable upto 690V AC @1% accuracy 
Ground Current @5% (internal) 
 
31.26.8   Protections: IMPR module shall provide all current based protections mentioned below: 

a)   Thermal overload 

Trip curve shall be selectable between inverse (I²t) and definite time (Ixt)  
Trip Class 5 to 30 site selectable 
                b)    Current phase imbalance 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 346 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

c)    Current phase loss 
   d)    Current phase reversal 

 e)    Long start 
 f)     Jam (locked rotor during run) 
 g)    Undercurrent 
 h)    Overcurrent  
                 i)     Ground Fault protection (internal) 
                 j)     Motor temperature sensor 
                k)     Rapid cycle lockout 

m)     With Voltage module: 

i.   Voltage phase imbalance 
ii.   Voltage phase loss 
iii.   Voltage phase reversal 
iv.   Under / Over voltage  

v.   Voltage load shedding 
vi.   Under / Over power 
vii.   Under / Over power factor  
viii.   Voltage Dip Detection Automatic Restart 
 
31.26.10    Monitoring & Protection:  
 

i)  
Shall provide monitoring of all 3ph currents, ground current, avg current, voltages, power, pf, 
active and reactive and energy, it shall have fault recording with all the current, voltage values for 
the last 5 faults. 

a.   Ground fault protection shall be possible by IMPR (internally), it shall also have the 

provision to connect the (external) CBCT to IMPR and no expansion module shall be 
required 
b.   IMPR shall be capable to monitor, display and communicate the ground fault current 

values (for both internal & external measurements) 
c.   IMPR shall be directly connected to the temperature sensor, without expansion module, 

PTC binary, PTC analog, NTC analog and PT100 sensors must be supported.  
d.   IMPR shall monitor, display and communicate the temperature value (when connected 

with PT100 sensor) 
31.26.11  
 Control Functions:  

a.   The basic IMPR shall have integral 6 Digital inputs, 3 Programmable relay output, 

1NO+1NC fault output, 1 temperature sensor input, 1 CBCT input terminal. 
b.   The voltage expansion module shall have 4 Digital inputs and provide all the voltage based 

protections and monitoring. 
c.   IMPR shall have a test/reset button to reset faults and to test the functionality. 
d.   IMPR shall have the provision for grouping protection faults in 3 groups and based on the 

criticality each group shall have time to reset, no of permissible fault resets and enabling / 
disabling auto reset for the fault groups. 
 
31.26.12  
Electrical Wiring:  

a.   The expansion module shall be internally powered by IMPR, and the connections between 

the module shall be with standard cables with RJ45 connectors 
b.   The IMPR shall have LEDS to indicate HMI Communication Status, Power, Alarm, 

Communication statuses. 
c.  
IMR shall have dedicated port for HMI / Expansion module 
e.     HMI shall also be internally powered by IMPR  
f.     For current greater than 100 Amps IMPR shall be suitable for use with an external 5P10 / 

5P15 CT up to 810 Amps 

 
31.26.13  
Configuration / Programming: 

a. IMPR shall be programmable from HMI / PC / DCS 
b. IMPR shall have prebuild configuration modes for motor starters (DOL / RDOL / star-delta 

/ 2 speed) 
c. IMPR shall be configurable to operate as an overload relay 
d. Custom logic for programming DI/DO shall be possible and the software shall have the 

provision for programming on Structured text / Function block. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 347 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

e. Digital outputs shall be potential free and independent, each output shall be connectable 

to different field voltages 
g.   Performance Parameters:  
h.   The MTTF (Mean Time to Failure) for the product to be declared. 

MTTF ≥ 7,00,000 Hours 
 
31.26.14  
User Interface: 

a.  
HMI shall have the capability upload / download parameters to IMPR  
b.   The address & other communication parameters shall be configurable from HMI, no 

additional module shall be required 
c.   HMI shall be internally powered by IMPR no additional power supply shall be required, 

simple cables with RJ45 connectors shall be sufficient for connection to IMPR 
d.   HMI shall have the simple text display in English with options to download other 

languages  
e.  
HMI shall have the operate / reset buttons 
f.  
HMI shall display the operating data, status, faults, counters & warning 
information. 

 
 
 
 
31.27  
MINIATURE CIRCUIT BREAKERS:  The MCB shall be of the completely moulded design suitable for 

operation at 240/415 Volts 50 Hz system. The MCB's shall have a rupturing capacity of 10 KA at 0.5 p.f. 
conforming to arc limiting category 3. There shall be no de-rating of the MCB when multiple units are 
stacked vertically together inside the distribution board. There shall be no de rating of MCB at 50C 
operation. The MCB's shall have inverse time delayed thermal overload and instantaneous magnetic short 
circuit protection. All types of RCD (RCCB/RCBO) shall be specifically immunized to prevent nuisance 
tripping in the presence of harmonics in the load currents. The MCB unit shall have “bi-connect” type 
terminals suitable for connection to cable or strip conductors. It shall be possible to terminate on the MCB 
without load or line bias. The MCB shall have ISI marking and certified to IEC 60898. 
 
31.28  MANUFACTURING FACILITY 
 
 

31.28.1      Sheet steel manufacturing for the LV panels shall be done as per the drawings on in house CNC 

cutting and bending machines at the assembler/OEM premises. 

31.28.2     In house facility to be available for fourteen tank pre-treatment process and powder coating facilities 

The Pretreatment and painting process shall be regularly checked for the stability of the process the final 
paint thickness should be 60 to 80 microns. 

31.28.3     The manufacturer must have established stores with proper procedures for checking incoming 

material, stocking, rejection etc so that inferior quality material does not enter the shop. 

31.28.4      In house facility for routine testing of the switchboards. The complete facility should have ISO 9001 

certification. 

31.28.5     If supplied by the assembler, the OEM shall provide references of projects executed by the assembler 

with the OEM certified designs for at least 4 years preceding the date of issue of this tender. Further, 
evidence shall be furnished of orders of OEM designed TTA conforming to IEC over the 4 year period as 
mentioned above. 

31.28.6   
The LT panels shall be accommodated with fully automatic change over switch (auto transfer 
switch) with RJ 45 ethernet switch along with cable for integration and synchronization of DG sets/panels 
with SAS architecture. 

31.29 Rep of accepting officer shall send to witness the testing/inspection of the all the LT Panels at 

factory/manufacturer before dispatch and the overall cost to be borne by the contractor” 

31.30 Third party inspection by TUV/LRS/IRS and submission of record drawings in soft copy and 5 sets colour 

coded hard copy” 

Note:  Totally type tested panel shall be design and manufactured by OEM only.  

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 348 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
32 
EXTERNAL WATER SUPPLY   

32.1  
GENERAL 

32.1.1  
The work under this Schedule comprises of taking branch connection by cutting, the existing cast iron 
pipe line, laying DI / GI / cast iron pipes and specials including fittings. 

32.1.2  
Layout of pipe lines shown in drawing is tentative and any charge in layout would not entail the 
contractor for payment.  Layout of pipelines including specials and fittings shall be marked on ground 
by the contractor for approval of Engineer-in-Charge.  Actual work shall be carried out only after 
approval by the Engineer-in-Charge.  The contractor shall be advised to produce the materials only 
after approval of layout.   

32.1.3  
The work shall be executed by a licensed plumber.  The contractor shall provide the license of the 
plumber for verification on demand by Engineer-in-Charge. 

32.1.4  
The work shall be carried out all as described in Schedule ‘A’ and as specified hereinafter as shown on 
drawing and as directed by Engineer-in-Charge. 

32.2     
MATERIALS: All fittings, accessories and other items shall strictly conform to current / latest IS and 
shall invariably bear ISI certification mark. Material shall be incorporated in work only when approved 
by GE / Engineer-in-Charge. 

32.3       
MILD STEEL GALVANISED TUBES AND FITTINGS:   Water tubing and fittings shall be of galvanised 
medium grade as indicated in Schedule "A" and shall conform to IS – 1239 [Part-I].  Laying, jointing 
and fixing of pipes shall be carried out all as specified in clauses 18.50 and 18.51 of MES Schedule 
Part – I. The Contractor shall use proper bends, elbows, tees etc. at turning corners. Bending of pies 
is not permitted except where the pipe has to follow the contour masonry/brick work or where a 
fitting cannot be inserted. The bends shall be gradual and firm with the written permission of the 
Engineer-in-Charge. Pipes and fittings shall be of make as approved by the GE. Contractor shall 
provide screwed plugs to all open ends of pipe on completion of day’s work. Contractor shall provide 
screwed plugs to all open ends of pipe on completion of day work. 

 

32.4 
DI PIPES AND PIPE FITTINGS / SPECIALS:   Centrifugally Cast [spun] Ductile Iron Pressure Pipes shall 
be IS – 8329 marked of class K-7 / K-9 as mentioned in Schedule “A” and suitable for Spigot and 
Socketed CI / Ductile Iron Fittings with Push on Joints. The pipes shall be in standard lengths of 4m, 
5m, 5.5m & 6m. The pipes and fittings shall withstand the hydrostatic test pressure after installation, 
without showing leakage, sweating or defects of any kind as laid down in IS. Internal surface of Pipes 
and Fittings such as bends [any type, radius and angle], tapers any type [straight, bent, increasing / 
decreasing or double socket, etc.], tee pieces [single branch "Y" junction, double branch, etc.], cross 
[all flanged], collars, duck foot bends, caps and plugs etc shall be cement mortar lining with epoxy 
seal coat and external surface shall be zinc coating [minimum 130 Grams per square metre] with 
bituminous finish layer [minimum thickness 70 micron]. Ductile iron Pipes shall be laid, jointed and 
tested all as per IS –12288, Code of practice for use and laying of DI pipes and as specified in MES 
Schedule Part – I. All DI pipe fittings / special shall be IS – 9523 marked.  
 
32.5  
DUCTILE IRON FLANGED PIPE S  AND FITTINGS:  DI flanged pipe shall confirm to IS-8329. he pipers 
shall be free from defects, other than unavoidable surface imperfections which results from the 
method of manufacture and which do not affect the use of pipes. The flanges shall be at right angles 
to the axis of the pipe.  
 
32.6  
DI FITINGS:   All DI fittings shall confirm to IS-9523. In Sch ‘A’ unit of measurement of each fitting is 
given in kilogram. For measurement and payment purposes weight given in IS shall be considered and 
not the actual weight of the fitting. However, weight of each fitting shall be within the tolerances given 
in IS and underweight fittings shall not be used in the work. 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 349 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
32.7 
LAYING & JOINTINGS OF PIPES  
 
32.7.1 
All pipes laying and jointing shall be conforming to various provisions of IS.  The minimum depth shall 
be 1000mm. However, where standard depth is not possible it can be reduced to a minimum of 
600mm.  No sand bedding is required. Jointing of ductile iron pipe can be done similar to CI pipes. 
Back filling can start immediately after jointing is completed.  To avoid pipe floatation back fill should 
start immediately after installation.  The pipe can be cut with engine cutter/metal saw/bite cutter.  
Oxyacetylene torches should not be used for cutting.  If cement mortar lining is damaged at the 
cutting point, it should be repaired by the contractor at his own cost. 
 
32.7.2 
The trench shall be so dug that the pipe may be laid to the required alignment and at the required 
depth when pipeline is crossing a road, a minimum cover 1.0m is required. Width of trench shall be 
kept to a minimum consistence with the working space required.   At the bottom between the faces, it 
shall be such as to provide not less than 200 mm clearance on either side of the pipe. 
 
32.7.3  
JOINTING OF PIPE:  For jointing of flanged pipe, rubber insertion sheet of min 3 mm thick conforming 
to IS shall be used. Alternatively, flanged joints shall be made with jointing ring of good quality, 
smooth, hard compressed fiber board (not less than 1.5 mm thick) and of such width as to fit inside 
the circle of bolts. The rings shall be smeared thinly with graphite paste.  The nuts shall be carefully 
tightened in opposite pairs, until the joint ring is only just sufficiently compressed between the flanges 
to ensure water tightness of the joints under the desired water pressure. 

 
32.8  
TESTING OF MAINS BEFORE   COMMENCING WORK:  All pipes, fittings and appliances shall be 
inspected before delivery at site to see whether they bear, where appropriate, the certification mark of 
the Indian Standards Institution or the mark of the testing authority i.e. OEM test certificate.  All pipes 
and fittings shall be inspected and tested by the manufacturers at their factory and shall comply with 
the requirements of IS code.  They shall be tested hydraulically under such pressure specified as per 
IS. The pipes and fittings shall be inspected on site before laying and shall be sounded to disclose 
cracks.  Any defective items shall be clearly marked as rejected and forthwith removed from the site. 
 
32.9  
TESTING OF MAINS AFTER LAYING  

 
32.9.1 
After laying and jointing, the main shall be slowly and carefully charged with water, so that all air is 
expelled from the main by providing a 25 mm inlet with a stopcock allowed to stand full of water for 
few ways if time permits, and then tested under pressure. The test pressure shall not be less that the 
greatest of the following: 

 

(i) 
1½ times the maximum sustained static pressure. 

 
(ii) 1½ times the maximum pipeline static pressure. 

 
(iii) Sum of the maximum sustained operating pressure or maximum pipe line static pressure 
and the maximum calculated surge pressure. 
 
32.9.2 
The field test pressure where ever possible be not less than two third of the works test pressure 
appropriate to the class of pipe except in case of spun iron pipes and shall be applied and maintained 
for at least 4 hours.  Where the field test pressure is less than two third of the works test pressure, 
the period of test should be increased to at least 24 hours.  The test pressure shall be gradually raised 
at the rate of nearly 1 Kg/cm2/Min.  
 
32.9.3 
The main shall be tested in sections as the work of laying proceeds.  It is essential to have the joints 
exposed for inspection during the testing.  The open end of the main may be temporarily closed for 
testing under moderate pressure by fitting a water tight expanding plug of which several types are 
available.  The end of the main and the plug shall be secured by struts or otherwise, to resist the end 
thrust of the water pressure in the mains. 
 
32.10 
FACTORY INSPECTION:    Rep of accepting officer shall be detailed for factory inspection of MS ERW & 
DI pipes and cost of the same shall be borne by the tenderer.  

32.11 
BALL VALVES: Ball valves shall be of brass or bronze, high pressure type, and shall conform to IS 
1703:2000, Specification for Ball valves (horizontal plunger type) including floats for water supply 
purposes. The float shall be of polyethylene. High pressure ball valve with float immersed to not more 
than half its volume shall remain closed against test pressure of 1.05 MPa.  
 
32.12 
GATE VALVES/NON RETURN VALVE: These shall be of size and specification as given in respective 
item of Schedule "A" and MES Schedule Part-I, these shall be ISI marked and of approved make 
specified here in after. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 350 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
32.13 
MOTOR ACTUATED BUTTERFLY VALVE: These shall be of size and specification as given in respective 
item of Schedule "A" and shall be ISI marked and of approved make specified here in after. These 
shall be motorised 3 Phase operation with Inching duty. Pressure rating shall be PN 1.6 and torque 
shall be as per relevant IS.  
 
32.14 
ACTUATORS:  Actuators shall be weather proof electrical actuators with integral starter suitable for 
inching duty with following fittings: - 

 
(a) 2 Nos Limit switches of 2NO + 2NC contacts and 2 Nos Torque switches of 2NO+2NC contacts, 
current rating 5A/0.40A at 240V, AC/DC, Enclosure of switches IP 66. 
 
(b) Motor suitable for 415Volt, 50Hz, 3 phase AC Power supply, Class –F insulation, 3 thermo switches 
are embedded in each motor winding for protection against burn out. Enclosure IP 67 after mounting 
on actuator. Duty S2-15mins (max 150 starts/hr max for ON /OFF duty). 
 
(c) Hand wheel for emergency manual operation which disengages as soon as motor operation is 
resumed. 
 
(d) Continuous dial type mechanical position indicator for local indication. 
 
(e) Space Heater in switch compartment. 
 
(f) Contact type position feedback transmitter suitable for 4-20mA feedback signal. 
 
(g) Cable entries of suitable size with metal plugs. 
 
(h) Suitable for an ambient temperature -20 degree Centigrade to + 80 degree centigrade. 
 
(j) All switches and motor connections are brought out to a common terminal box for customer 
connections for power and control. Terminals are suitable to accommodate incoming wires of cross 
section upto 4 Sqmm for power and 2.5Sqmm for control. 
 
(k) Enclosure of actuators – IP 68 protection. 
 
(l) 
Paint : Epoxy based paint of Smoke grey shade 692 as per IS. 
 
(m) Integral starter with;  

(i) Reversing Contractors (Electrically and Mechanically interlocked) 
(ii) Push buttons for “OPEN – STOP – CLOSE”. 
(iii) Selector Switches (LOCAL / OFF/REMOTE) with potential free contacts for remote indication. 
(iv) Control Transformer 415/110Volt. 
(v) Input command signals “OPEN – STOP – CLOSE” (potential free contacts) OPEN – STOP – 
CLOSE” with 24Volt, DC from internal power supply or from external source. 
(vi) Single Phasing Protection + Phase reversal protection. 

 

32.15 
Contractor shall submit applicable wiring diagram for actuators showing all connected details for 
approval of GE before execution of work.  

 
32.16 
SLUICE VALVE: These shall be of size and specification as given in respective item of Schedule "A" and 
MES Schedule Part-I, these shall be ISI marked and of approved make specified here in after. All cut 
off valve shall be of right hand type and valve wheels should have on arrow head engraved or cast 
thereon showing direction for turning “Open” and “Close”.  

 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 351 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
33.0 
EOT CRANE   

 
33.1 
The EOT crane of 5 Ton capacity as specified in BOQ shall have the following specifications: -  
 
 
(a) 
Speed, Span, Lift, Bay length etc., 
- 
As specified in BOQ                   

(b) 
Complete operation 
 
- 
Wireless and also by Pendent control panel 

(c) 
Hook type 
 
- 
As per applicable IS specification. 

(d) 
Limit switches/Automatic 
- 
When limits of lift-lower, cross travel Cut offs with 
self-resets and longitudinal travel reached to be 
incorporated as art of crane automatic control and 
safety system irrespective of operator operation. 

(e) 
Braking - Smooth braking to decelerate without work piece winging dangerously. 

(f) 
Maintenance   
- 
Accessibility in subsequent upkeep and maintenance. 

33.2           INSPECTION & PERFORMANCE TESTS 

33.2.1         SHOP TEST & INSPECTION 

33.2.1.1 
Test at manufacturer’s works shall be conducted as specified in IS: 3177 and test certificates shall be 
furnished. 

33.2.1.2 
The contractor shall submit material test certificates for structural steel and mechanical components 
such as couplings, gears, gearboxes, rope drums, brake drums, pulley, shafts, wheels etc. and 
electrical components motor, brake, limit switches, panels etc. 

33.2.1.3 
Rep of accepting officer shall be detailed for factory inspection as well as Pre 
commissioning inspection at site.  

33.2.2         SHOP ASSEMBLY:    The crane shall be shop assembled prior to shipment to the extent required to 

ensure satisfactory field erection. All critical dimensions shall be verified, all motions checked and 
equipment tested in the shop prior to shipping. All sub-assemblies and part shall be match-marked and 
metal tagged with piece numbers to facilitate field assembly.  

33.2.3  
THE CRANE AFTER ERECTION SHALL BE TESTED AS FOLLO WS:  

33.2.3.1  
DEFECTION TEST:   The deflection test shall be conformed as per IS 3177 and the deflection of 
the bridge girders shall not exceed 1/900 of span. 

33.2.3.2   
SPEED TESTS:   All the motions of the crane shall be tested with rated load and the rated speeds 
shall be attained within the tolerance as per IS 3177. All the motions of the crane shall be tested 
with 25% overload in which case the rated speeds need not be attained but the crane shall show 
itself capable of dealing with the overload without difficulty. 

33.2.3.3   
PERFORMANCE TESTS:    The crane shall be tested with rated load for performance of long 
travel and cross travel motions to develop the required acceleration. 

33.2.3.4    
BRAKE TESTS:   The hoist brakes shall be capable of breaking the movement. 

33.2.4  
INSTRUCTION FOR ERECTION, TESTING AND COMMISSIONING OF THE C R ANE 

33.2.4.1 
Crane shall be tested; as per latest IS code/standard engineering practices/instructions as 
deemed fit by the department. 

33.2.4.2 
Crane shall be supplied and erected complete with electric motors, starters, lubricating system, 
pendent control, isolator, down shop lead, cables, limit switches, brakes, drive shafts, hook, gear 
box, crab, control panel, platform, gantry, wire rope, rope drum, festoon cable etc. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 352 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
33.2.4.3 
Supply of LT rail straightening/ alignment and erecting of the same on gantry by clamping etc; is also 
included in the scope of the work. 

33.2.4.4 
The design, erection, commissioning shall be subject to 3 rd  party inspection (LRS/IRS/DNV). Rep of 
accepting officer shall be detailed for factory inspection as well as pre commissioning inspection at site. 
Cost of 3 rd  party inspection shall be borne by the tenderer. 

33.2.5 
COMPLETION DRAWINGS: The quoted rate shall also include for preparation and supply of 03 sets of 
completion drawings of work as directed by GE. 

34 
HOT/COOLING APPLIENCES / AIR CONDITIONING :   All as specified in Schedule ‘A’ and as 
specified here in after. 
 
34.1 
All Air cooled packaged air conditioners / VRV / VRF /TFA type ACs of capacity shall be provided as 
specified in BOQ and as enumerated in these particular specifications. 
 
34.2 
DESIGN CRITERIA 

34.2.1 
The AC unit should be designed as per following conditions:- 

 
[i] 
Rated capacity : As per Schedule ‘A’ Items  

 
[ii] 
Flow direction : Upward flow/Downward flow 

 
[iii] 
Air inlet temp. : 25 deg C (DB) at 50% RH (Return Air) 

 
[iv] 
Saturated Suction Temp : Between 9 deg C and 10 deg C 

 
[v] 
Minimum Super heat : 2 deg C 

 
[vi] 
Saturated discharge Temperature: Max 53 deg C (at ambient of 43 deg C) 

 
[vii] 
Ambient air design temperature: 43 deg C (However the system should be (Entering the 
condenser) able to work with ambient temp upto 50 deg C 

 
[viii] 
Air quantity : >550 CFM/TR 

 
[ix] 
Total static pressure: 35 mm of WG between inlet and outlet of Blower i.e. across the 
blower. 

 
[x] 
Filters : EU – As specified in Schedules  

 
[xi] 
Face velocity across the : < 2.5 m/sec Cooling coil 

 
[xii] 
Type of load : The exchanges are having high sensible heat Load (Sensible Heat factor > 
0.95) 

 
[xiii] 
Minimum C.O.P. : 2.90 

34.3 
CABINET 

34.3.1 
The Cabinet should be constructed from best quality GI sheet steel of thickness not less than 16 
gauge for top, bottom and side panels & 20 gauge for front and back panels suitably treated for 
weather protection, corrosion and shall be powder coated.  

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 353 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
34.3.2 
The casing may be of CRCA Powder coated, 1.2 to 1.6 mm thick. Coil and blower sections should be 
insulated internally for both acoustics and thermal purposes with 12 mm thick resin bonded Fibre 
Glass of density 48Kg/m3 glass wool covered with glass cloth of fire retardant grade. 

34.3.3 
The cabinet insulation may have open cell polyurethane foam or mineral wool of 25 mm may be used 
which complies to fire classification B according to DIN 4102 self extinguishing, sound absorbent / 
fibre glass insulation of 25 mm thickness may be used. 

34.3.4 
Suitable arrangement shall be provided for lifting/easy handling of machines. 

34.4 
COMPRESSOR (SCROLL) 

34.4.1 
All units having twin circuit shall be provided with two scroll type compressors having independent 
refrigerant circuit each rated for 50% capacity having energy efficiency ratio. 

34.4.2 
The compressor should be of Reputed make hermetic sealed type. 

34.4.3 
Compressor should be suitable for operation on Non CFC refrigerant gases. 

34.4.4 
Compressor Motor should be suitable for operation on 415 + 10% variations, 50Hz, 3 phase, AC 
supply. 

34.4.5 
The compressors should be located in such a way that removal of one compressor should not affect 
the operation of the other circuit (for twin circuit units). 

34.4.6 
Compressors should be installed on spring mounted floating platform/rubber pads or manufacturer’s 
recommended approved mounting. 

34.4.7 
Overload protection should be provided in compressor. 

34.4.8 
Gauge Ports should be provided at appropriate location to measure suction and discharge pressures. 

34.5 
EVAPORATOR COIL 

34.5.1 
Evaporator coil should be two in numbers one for each refrigerant circuit for twin circuit machines. 
Each coil should be rated for 50% of TR rating of package unit. 

34.5.2 
Evaporator coil should be constructed out of copper tubes not less than 0.31 mm thick expanded on 
to aluminium fins to give a good mechanical bond for maximum heat transfer. Approximately 13 to 
14 fins per inch should be provided. Fin thickness should not be less than 0.1 mm with hydrophilic 
coating. 

34.5.3 
Face area of coil should be selected corresponding to air velocity not exceeding 2.5 m/sec. 

34.5.4 
A condensate drip tray of stainless steel / GI Powder coated / heavy gauge aluminium having 
minimum 18 SWG thick along with a special plastic pipe to drain out condensate water should be 
provided. 

34.6 
BLOWER SECTION 

34.6.1 
Total static pressure should be 35 mm of WG. To confirm static pressure of blower 35 mm of 
WG, it should be measured between inlet and outlet of blower i. e. across the blower. Blower 
fans should be statically and dynamically balanced. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 354 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
34.7 
FAN MOTOR ASSEMBLY 

34.7.1 
Fan should driven by a weather proof electric motor suitable for operation on 415V+10% 
variation 3 phase, 50Hz, AC supply. The motor housing shall be of IP 55/ IP 54 grade. 

34.7.2 
The fan should be directly coupled/belt driven having a maximum speed of 1400 rpm (cocked 
‘V’ belts are to be used for better efficiency & control) 

34.7.3 
Energy efficient motors as per relavant latest IS on subject matter should be used. 

34.8 
PRECISE HUMIDIFICATION FEATURE 

34.8.1 
Electrode steam generator (generating pure steam from boiling water by direct acting 
electrodes) having precision drainage and feed, steam supply matching thedemand, accurate 
conductivity control and minimal disruption in steam production. 

34.9 
REFRIGERANT PIPING 

34.9.1 
There should be two self contained independent refrigerant circuits in each air conditioner for 
twin circuit machines. A totally independent piping hook up for each combination of 
compressor-evaporator and air cooled condenser constituting one refrigerant circuit. For 
single refrigerant circuit only one refrigerant circuit is required. 

34.9.2 
Each refrigerant circuit should be suitable for operation on R-22 and should include the 
following items :- 

 
[i] 
Thermostatic Expansion Valve with external Pressure equalization. 

 
[ii] 
Removable liquid line filter drier with hand shut off valves. 

 
[iii] 
Liquid Line sight Glass with Moisture indicator. 

 
[iv] 
Suitable charging valves. 

34.9.3 
The serviceable/removable components should 
have 
union connections for easy 
removal/assembly. 

34.9.4 
All pipe works should be carried out with refrigerant quality copper tubes and where bends 
are required these should be completed using either a proprietary bending tool or radius 
fittings.  

34.10 
ELECTICAL SYSTEM 

34.10.1 
The Electrical power system should confirm to relevant I.S. standard. A main incoming MCB 
of suitable rating and having a rupturing capacity of 10 KA for each AC package unit should 
be provided on the unit sized to meet the total power requirements for AC package unit 
circuit. 

34.10.2 
Within the panel individual power loads should be distributed equally across the three phases. 

34.10.3 
All individual wires should be of copper and colour coded or should be numbered at their 
point of termination to facilitate servicing. 

34.10.4 
Low voltage control wiring and power wiring should be segregated from each other. 

34.10.5 
Heaters shall be suitably provided with insulators with safety thermostats and contactors of 
suitable ratings. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 355 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
34.10.6 
The following shall be incorporated:- 

 
[i] 
MCB of suitable rating and having a rupturing capacity of 10 KA should be provided 
for each sub-circuit. 

 
[ii] 
Contactors for motors of suitable rating. 

 
[iii] 
Electronic overload protection against overload, phase loss & reverse phase sequence 
and sensing negative sequence current for individual 3 phase motors. 

34.11 
AIR COOLED CONDENSER 

34.11.1 
For each air conditioner unit (with twin circuits) there should be two air cooled condenser 
units; each having a matching heat rejection duty for one refrigerant circuit. 

34.11.2 
condenser unit should incorporate the followings:- 

 
[i] 
A heat rejecting coil block constructed from copper tubes of not less than 0.3 mm 
thick expanded on to straight aluminium fins. Approximately 13 to 14 number of 
fins/inch should be provided. Fin thickness should not be less than 0.1 mm with 
hydrophilic coating. 

 
[ii] 
Minimum two propeller fans shall be provided for each condenser unit and should be 
selected for low speed quiet operation. The condenser unit should be selected for low 
speed quiet operation. The condenser unit should be suitably designed for noise level 
< 75 db at a distance of 1 meter away from O/D unit. 

34.11.3 
The condenser should be vertical mounting type with horizontal throw of air, ensuring even 
air flow over the coil block. Suitable GSS collar shall be provided at fan outlet. 

34.11.4 
All the foregoing items should be factory assembled with body made of 1.6 mm (16 SWG) GI 
sheet Powder coated OR Condenser body shall be of GI powder coated / casing of condenser 
shall be made of marine grade aluminium and stainless steel hardware and thickness of 
casing shall be 1.2mm. 

34.11.5 
The entire assembly should be supported by a corrosion treated frame. 

34.11.6 
Separate MCB of suitable rating and having a rupturing capacity of 10 KA for each motor near 
its vicinity in suitable weather proof enclosure should be provided. 

34.12 
CONTROLS 

34.12.1 
Following controls should be provided :- 

 
[i] 
High pressure trip – Auto reset (for each compressor) 

 
[ii] 
Low pressure trip – Auto reset (for each compressor) 

34.12.2 
The unit shall trip if operated on HT or LP trip for more than three times. 

34.13 
SAFETY INTERLOCKS 

34.13.1 
Interlock between condenser fan motor and compressor motor to prevent starting of 
compressor without condenser fan in operation. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 356 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
34.13.2 
Condenser fan should stop along with compressor. 

34.13.3 
Provision should also be made to operate the evaporator fan without, the operation of 
condenser and compressor. 

34.14 
CONTROLLER 

34.14.1 
Microprocessor based programmable logic controller fully compliant with EEC directives for 
electromagnetic compatibility with following broad features:- 

 
[i] 
Operates, monitors and displays so that the room temperature and humidity is kept 
at 21 +1 deg.C & 50 + 5% RH respectively. However the parameters should be site 
settable HP/low LP, low humidifier water, overload, air flow failure, dirty filter and 
high heater temperature) 

 
[ii] 
Programming of AC units shall be based on (i) Equal run hours per 24 hours in a day 
and (ii) if the designated unit is unhealthy, then stop the unhealthy unit and start 
command shall be passed on to next unit. 

 
[iii] 
In case of more than one number of AC Package unit, the optimum number of 
package units shall be made operational in order to maintain the necessary 
temperature & humidity conditions in the switch room / conditioned room. 

  
[iv] 
Unhealthy condition: Current drawn by individual units as well as supply air 
temperature at the individual AC units should be displayed simultaneously in the 
controller. There should be option to program the high and low acceptable levels of 
both of these parameters (i.e supply air temperature as well as current) through front 
panel depending on the site requirement. In case of fault, the respective AC unit 
should be switched OFF and taken out of the running sequence. Alarm should be 
available for the faulty unit. 

 
[v] 
Separate auto / manual switch for each circuit is to be provided for bypassing the 
controller. However manual mode should not be made effective through control card 
i. e. it should be independent of the control card. All the safeties such as HP / LP, 
overload, thermostat etc. plus the starting sequence of blower, condenser, 
compressor and the interlocking of blower with condenser & compressor should be 
functional in manual mode also. 

34.15 
AIR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM       

34.15.1 
Air distribution system shall comprising of the following:- 

 
[i] 
Supply & Return Air ducting factory made of commercial grade GI sheet Zinc coating 120 
grade, IS: 277 and factory fabricated as per SMACNA-1995 standards and IS-655, but not less 
than 22 SWG thick. Ducting shall be acoustically insulated with standard size of AC sheets, 
insulated with 25mm thick  resin bonded fibre glass wool (density 24 Kg/Cum) covered with 
factory laminated aluminium foil fixed with adhesive tape and finally cladded with 26 SWG 
aluminium sheet  & supported by internal  channel and clamping. Where these ducts passing 
through un-conditioned space shall be insulated with 50mm thick fibre glass wool density 24 
Kg/Cum, covered with GI chicken wire mesh and cladded with aluminium foil fixed with 
adhesive tape and finally cladded with 26 SWG aluminium sheet & supported by internal 
channel & clamping. Wherever the ducting for exposed to sky shall be insulated with 50mm 
thick resin bonded fibre glass wool of density 24 Kg/Cum covered with polythene sheet faced 
hessian cloth, GI chicken wire mesh and cladded with sand and cement plaster and supported 
by MS channel & clamps complete in all respect. Make shall be Rolastar / Zeco / Sail / Tata / 
Jindal. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 357 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
34.15.2 
The contractor shall examine the entry of supply air duct before quoting. 

34.15.3 
Aluminium powder coated double deflection adjustable type Supply air grills/diffusers with 
MS volume control dampers and Aluminium powder coated fixed bar type return air 
grills/diffusers as required without volume control damper for return air. 

34.15.4 
Fire dampers automatic type UL stamped fusible plug (CBRI Certified) and operated with 
stainless steel spring made out of 16 SWG GI sheet and limit switch to be provided in each 
main supply air duct near plenum in AHU room for each AHU and interlocked with AHU 
motor to cut off circulation of air in case of fire.         

34.15.5 
Suitability of existing supply and return air duct examined by the tenderer and to be replaced 
the same shall be carried out as per approved design by Accepting Officer and all as specified 
by Engineer-in-charge.  

34.15.6 
Contractor should submit the drawings of supply and return air ducting with respect to 
capacity of plants to get the desired room temperature conditions for the approval of 
Accepting Officer. 

34.16 
MAIN ELECTRICAL PANEL BOARD 

34.16.1 
Main electrical panel board shall be provided as specified in schedule items  

34.17 
EARTHING   

34.17.1 
Suitable Earthing shall be done with Galvanized steel earth plate electrode of size 
600x600x6mm thick buried directly in ground with earth pit not less than 2.25m deep below 
the normal ground level with top edge of plate not less than 1.5m below normal GL connected 
to GI strip of size 32x6mm as earth lead by means of bolts, nuts, check nuts and washers of 
Galvanized iron or steel all as shown in electrical plate No. 3 of SSR Part-I connected to 
earthing test point all as specified or indicated including testing on completion and as directed. 

34.18 
NOTES 

34.18.1 
All civil works required to install, test and commissioning of the equipments i.e earth work 
excavation, foundation for equipment, necessary cable ducts with MS covers 10mm thick duly 
painted with two coats of synthetic enamel paint over a coat of red oxide primer, excavation 
for laying pipes, etc and making good the disturbed/demolished/broken surfaces and finish to 
match with existing specifications including fixing the ducting etc, complete shall deemed to  
included in the rate quoted by the tenderer. 

34.18.2 
Manufacturers Technical back up after sales service support shall provided for chiller package. 

34.18.3 
Suitable supports for holding the ducts will be provided by tenderer as specified and directed. 
The tenderer shall also examine at site the method of provision of Supply Ducts from unit to 
entry of the bldg and inside the Conditioned space and any columns/ beams /Angle iron 
frames etc if required to support the ducts grills is deemed to be included in the quoted rate. 

34.18.4 
All loads upto 63A shall be controlled by MCB and MCCB for loads above 63A. 

34.18.5 
Perforated GI sheet cable tray fixed on angle iron supports grouted in wall for carrying all 
cables shall be provided as specified in Schedules. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 358 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
34.18.6 
Initial charging of oil and refrigerant gas shall deemed to included in the quoted rate. 

34.18.7 
Any work not included in the above details, but which are essential for technical requirement 
for the efficient performance and smooth functioning of the plant shall be clearly specified 
and included in the quoted rate. 

34.18.8 
The complete plant shall be installed, tested and commissioned only by the  skilled Engineer 
of the original Manufacturer  of ACs. Necessary confirmation shall be submitted by the 
contractor after completion of the work with test certificates before department undertakes 
further testings as per tender and cost is deemed to be included in the quoted rate. 

34.18.9 
All Equipment shall be connected with earth strip of size 32x6 mm shall deemed to be 
included in the quoted rate. 

34.19 
TESTING OF AC PLANTS 

34.19.1 
The contractor shall make arrangements for providing artificial heat load to compensate for 
the internal load upto the extent specified in the contract if the equipment load is not 
arranged by the users. Contractor shall make arrangements for providing the occupancy load, 
if testing with occupancy load is considered necessary. 

34.19.2 
The testing shall be carried out in the presence of Contractor’s qualified representative who 
shall make such connections, adjustments and modifications as considered necessary to 
ensure that ‘PHYSHOMETRIC’ conditions continue to be maintained with the tolerance 
specified for varying values of internal equipment and occupancy loads and outside conditions 
of temperature and humidity. All arrangements including various instruments required to 
facilitate testing shall be arranged by the contractor.  

34.19.3 
The test results shall be recorded on proper charts as directed by Engineer-in-Charge duly 
signed by the accredited representative of contractor and department. 

34.20 
PHASE – I TEST 

34.20.1 
The installation shall be taken over after the plant has been commissioned and the GE is 
satisfied on the points given below which constitutes  Phase I Test:- 

 
[i] 
That the plant equipment and accessories provided are as per contract specifications. 

 
[ii] 
That all plants, equipments and accessories are mechanically sound and other related 
items of the air conditioning work are of adequate structural strength and the 
installation is in conformity with the specifications embodied in the contract. 

 
[iii] 
That the finish and the general appearance of the work is as per contract 
specifications. 

 
[iv] 
That all duct pipes, fittings etc., are of specified size & type, quality design and 
workmanship and are neatly laid, fixed and painted to match the surrounding work. 

 
[v] 
That the inside design conditions are achieved and maintained during a test taken for 
24 hour continuous running irrespective of any variation in specified equipment and 
occupancy loads and irrespective of any variation in the ambient condition. Test 
results shall be recorded. This initial takeover shall be deemed provisional and 
without prejudice to phase-II test. 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 359 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
34.21 
PHASE – II TEST 

34.21.1 
After completion of Phase-I test, the plant shall be continuously run for 24 hours basis by the 
contractor till completion of all Phase-II tests. Contractor shall deploy adequate technical staff 
to operate the plant continuously and he shall be liable to carry out all the maintenance 
required during this period and quoted rates shall be deemed to cater for the same.  The 
Phase-II test will be carried out by the Accepting Officer or his authorised 
representative in presence of Engineer-in-Charge and the contractor . Each test shall 
last continuously for 3 days [72 hours].  The contractor shall afford all facilities and make all 
necessary arrangements for these tests.  The Phase-II tests shall be carried out as soon as 
the stipulated load and weather conditions are available but not later than one year after 
Phase-I test.  In case the required load is not available arrangements will be made by the 
contractor to provide artificial load. These tests comprise of following:-  

 
[i] 
Hot weather test to be conducted in summer month of April / May / June when the 
summer condition prevail.  The performance results of the plant as a whole shall be 
recorded in the forms as directed by testing officer duly signed by the accredited 
representative of contractor and department. 

 
[ii] 
Monsoon test to be conducted during monsoon period generally during July to 
September. The performance results of the plant as a whole shall be recorded in the 
forms as directed by testing officer duly signed by the accredited representative of 
contractor and department. 

 
[iii] 
Winter test to be conducted in Dec / Jan and performance results of the plant as a 
whole will be recorded. The performance results of the plant as a whole shall be 
recorded in the forms as directed by testing officer duly signed by the accredited 
representative of contractor and department. 

 
[iv] 
The GE will be responsible for intimating the dates of Phase-I and Phase-II tests to 
the contractor. 

 
[v] 
All expenditure in connection with the tests will be borne by the contractor. The 
charges for consumption of water and electricity for phase – II tests shall be borne 
by the department. However, energy charges for electricity will be borne by the 
contractor if Phase – II test fails and is redone after due repairs. If there are leakages 
of refrigerant / compressor oil after Phase – I test the same shall be made good by 
the contractor at his own cost, if it is attributed to the faulty materials / workmanship 
of the contractor. In case of dispute the decision of the Accepting Officer will be final 
and binding. 

 
[vi] 
If the Phase-II tests do not show satisfactory results, the contractor shall at his own 
expense rectify / replace the defective installation or any part thereof as directed by 
the Accepting Officer or his authorised representative within three months. The 
decision of the Accepting Officer shall be final and binding. In such rectification of 
defect, power consumption charges will be borne by the contractor. 

34.22 
The installation shall be finally taken over after the contractor has given satisfactory Phase-II 
test results as certified by the Accepting officer or his representative. The defects liability 
period of two year as per Condition 46 General conditions of contract [IAFW-2249] shall start 
from the date of final taking over the plant after Phase-II tests. Thereafter he shall forward a 
certified final account as stipulated in condition 65 General conditions of contract [IAFW-
2249].  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 360 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
34.23 
If the contractor fails to attend the repairs / renewals required in the plants / notified during 
Phase-II test due o which next due seasonal Phase-II test is delayed or shifted over to next 
year season, this shall be at the cost of contractor. 

34.24 
TRAINING OF MES / USERS PERSONNEL 

34.24.1 
The contractor shall during installation of the plant be responsible for training personnel [MES 
or Users] deputed by the Govt for running and maintenance of the installation. The rate 
quoted by the tenderer shall deemed to be inclusive for the same. 

34.25 
SPLIT TYPE AC:   T he machinery shall conform to IS 1391 Part (I & II) 1992, suitable for operation on 
230 volts+ 10% single phase AC supply. The unit shall be capable of cooling, dehumidifying, air 
circulation, ventilation and filtering in the sizes of nominal cooling capacities provided with environment 
friendly refrigerant. The indoor unit i.e fan coil unit shall be fitted with bacteriological filters, remote 
operation sensors and suitable drainage arrangement for dehumidified water in fan coil unit. The 
connection piping between indoor and outdoor unit shall be with copper stranded conductor of 
adequate size and length. 
 
34.26 
HOT /COOLING APPLIENCES:  These shall be as specified in Schedule A and approved make shall be 
fixed in position as directed.  
 
35. 
LIGHTENING PROTECTION: 

35.1. 
SCOPE OF WORK:  The work shall be carried out as specified hereinbefore and shall comply with code 
of practice vide IS – 2309-1989 and as specified in clause No. 19.147 to 19.147.9 of MES Schedule 
Part-I.  

35.2. 
GENERAL:  
[a] 
The work under this contract shall be carried out as per IS-2309 and other relevant 
specifications as applicable to this work and the specifications given hereinafter. 
[b] 
Lightning protection shall be provided generally conforming to the design as furnished in the 
drawing and specifications.  The contractor is advised to study the site conditions before 
quoting. 
 
35.3. 
MATERIALS:  All materials incorporated in the work shall conform to the relevant BS/IS, specifications 
and shall be of best indigenous make approved by the Garrison Engineer. 

35.4. 
SAMPLE:  Before commencing the work the contractor shall produce samples of all materials including 
accessories proposed to be incorporated in the work for the approval of the GE.  Samples that are 
approved will be retained by GE, until the work is finally completed and accepted.  Only materials 
conforming to the approved samples shall be incorporated in the work. 

 35.5. 
HORIZONTAL CONDUCTORS FIXED ON ROOF:  Where horizontal conductors are used for air 
termination, no part of the roof should be more than 9m away from the nearest horizontal protective 
conductor except that an additional 300mm may be allowed for each 300mm by which the part to be 
protected is below the nearest protective conductor.  Horizontal conductor shall be provided at the 
quarter perimeter.  The size of the conductor shall be as per Schedule ‘A’.  Wherever lapping of joints is 
made the length of the overlap should not be less than this also applies to other types of conductors 
used in this work.  The contact surfaces should be first cleaned and then inhibited from oxidation with a 
suitable non-corrosive compound. 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 361 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

35.6.  DOWN CONDUCTORS:  The down conductors shall be aluminium strip of size 25x3.15mm [and shall be 

connecting the air termination to the test poles]. The number of down conductors shall be as shown in 
the drawing and described in the Schedule, but shall not be less than number indicated in the clause 10.2 
of IS – 2309. The down conductor shall be well distributed round the walls of the structure.  The place 
adopted should be such that it is accessible for inspection, testing and maintenance.  It should allow the 
most direct path possible. Fixing arrangements shall be similar to these specified for air terminations. 
While-right angle bends, if necessary are permissible deep re-entrant loops shall be avoided.  Where a 
loop not be avoided, the conductor shall be arrange in such a way that the distance across the open side 
of the loop shall be such that it is more than 1/8 the length the loop of the conductor forming the loop. 
Any extended metal running from the structure shall be bounded to the down conductor at the top and 
bottom unless the clearance is in accordance with clause 12 of IS – 2309. 
35.7. 
FASTENERS: 

35.7.1 
The fasteners used for fixing various conductors shall be mechanically strong substantial in construction 
and not subject to breakage. The materials used should be such that no corrosion is caused. The 
fasteners, similar to these shown in IS – 2309 may be used.  Full details of the fastener to be used, 
method of fixing these to roofs, poles etc, shall be furnished by the contractor. The unit rates inserted 
for air terminations, down conductors etc, are deemed to include the cost of the fastener also. 
 35.7.2. The hylam block shall be in two halves with control [grip] slot for holding the horizontal/down 

conductor. First half of the block of size 75x40x10mm shall be fixed to roof/wall/column by 2 Nos. 
50mm long heavy gauge [not less than No 9] brass wood screws/eye bolts and nuts.  The screws/bolts 
shall be fixed in suitable rawl jumper holes filled with grip powder [fill plug powder] by adding 10% 
cement.  The second half shall be screwed half shall be screwed to bottom half by 2 Nos. 20mm long 
heavy gauge [not less than No.9] brass wood screws. 

 

35.8. 
TEST JOINT:  Each down conductor shall be providing with testing joint in such a position that while 
not inviting unauthorised interference, it is convenient to use when testing.  This joint will be provided 
with suitable cover as shown in drawings.  Where aluminium conductors are connected to copper, the 
joint shall be a thick layer of lead as shown in drawings.  The rate for the test joints is deemed to 
include such joints.  No connection, other than one direct to an earth electrode shall be made below the 
test joint. 

35.9. 
JOINTS AND BONDS:  

35.9.1. 
The lightning protection system shall have as few joints as possible.  In the down Conductors below 
ground level there shall be no joints.  Where joints are necessary they shall be mechanically and 
electrically effective and shall be so made as exclude moister completely. 

35.9.2. 
Joints and bonds other than at testing points shall be protected by a suitable material against corrosion.  
Joints for strip shall be tinned, soldered, welded or braced and at least double reverted.  Clamped or 
bolted joints shall only be used on test points or on bonds to existing metal, but joints for rods may be 
clamped or screwed type.  Protective coating used shall be permanent and non inflammable. 

35.10. 
EARTH TERMINATION:  An earth termination shall be connected to each down conductor directly or 
through the earth ring as the case may be.  Each of this earth termination shall have a resistance to 
earth not exceeding 10 ohms.  The whole of lightning protection system should have a combined 
resistance to earth not exceed 2 ohms before any bonding has been effected to metallic or on a 
structure or to service below ground level.  If the value exceeds 2 Ohms reduction should be achieved 
by increasing the number of earth points.  Earth termination should be capable of isolation for testing 
purposes. 

  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 362 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
35.11. 
CLEARANCE BETWEEN THE LIGHTENING PROTECTION SYSTEM AND METAL ON A 
STRUCTURE:  Where it is not possible to bond the metal in or on a structure the contractor will ensure 
the total clearance between the lightning protective system and other metals in the structure shall be as 
directed by GE.  

35.12. 
MAKING GOOD OF DISTURBED SURFACES:  The contractor shall make good any disturbed portion 
of the work to match the surroundings.  He shall also make good any minor damages caused to the 
structures.  The rates quoted by the contractor in Schedule ‘A’ are deemed to include the above 
provision. 

35.13. 
AIR TERMINATION: 

35.13.1. This shall be horizontal type comprising of 25x3.15mm aluminium Conductor as shown on drawings.  

The fixing arrangement to roof/parapet/wall Column shall be by means of hylum blocks of size 
75x40x10mm, fixed to roof/parapet/wall/column by 2 Nos. heavy gauge [not less than No.9] 50mm 
long brass connecting screws/eye bolts and fixed in rawl jumper holes filled by grip powder [fill plug 
powder] by adding 10% cement.  The hylam block shall be in two Valves with a control slot for holding, 
the conductor firmly.  The top half shall be screwed to bottom half by 2 Nos. 20mm long heavy gauge 
brass screws.  The hylam blocks shall be provided at 600mm centres and 150mm distance from edges 
of Air final termination, test point box and at lap joints.  The rate inserted in Schedule ’A’ Part IX for 
horizontal/vertical conductors shall interalia include cost of fixing as above. 

 35.13.2. Air finial, aluminium with anodized finish of 12mm dia, 600mm long shall be fixed by threading reverted 

and welded top and bottom of aluminium base plate of size 125x125x10mm.The entire system shall be 
fixed to hylam block of size 175x175x10mm by 04 Nos. heavy gauge screws [not less than No.9] and 
shall be fixed to wall/parapet/roof/columns by GI foundation bolts and nuts session on drawing.  The 
rate inserted in Schedule “A” for air terminal shall deem to include the cost of fixing as above and as 
shown on drawing. 

35.14. 
TESTING JOINTS/TESTING POINTS CUM GI ENCLOSED BOX:   Phosper bronze / Gun metal / 
copper test block of size 100x40x30mm, drilled, screwed and fixed to aluminium strip and GI strip by 
means of 4 Nos. 8mm dia brass screws and washers after drilled and topped.  The block shall be fixed 
to bracket welded to bottom plate of GI box top cover shall be made out of 2mm thick sheet and the 
bottom shall be 5mm thick MS plate.  4 Nos. suitable studs 8mm dia shall be welded to 5mm thick MS 
plate at four corners and top cover bottom plate by means of 4 Nos GI nuts and washers. The entire 
box of size 200x100x100mm shall be hot dip galvanised.  Internal surfaces of box and test joint shall be 
applied with anticorrosive compound.  The base plate of box shall be fixed to wall/column by 500mm 
long brass wood heavy gauge [not less than No.9] screws.  Brass screws shall be fixed in rawl jumper 
holes by means of grip powder [fill plug powder] by adding 10 % cement. 

35.15. 
EARTH RESISTANCE  

35.15.1. Properly made earth connections are essential to the effective functioning of lightning protection 

system.  Every effort shall be made to provide ample contract with the earth so that the earth 
resistance can be as low as possible. 

35.15.2. The whole of lightning protection system should have a combined resistance to earth not exceeding 10 

Ohms before any bonding has been effected to metal in or on a structure or to surface below ground. 

35.16. 
TESTING:  After completion of work, the entire system shall be tested by contractor in the presence of 
Engineer-in-Charge and the results of such test shall be recorded and signed by both parties. 

35.17 
Record Drawings:  Contractor has to submit 3 sets of following drawings: - (i)  Layout of 
lightning protection system.  (ii) Inventory of fittings & fixtures (iii) Earthing Test Records.”  
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 363 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.        
FIRE ALARM & FIRE FIGHTING:  

 36.1 
INTELLIGENT – ANALOGUE – ADDRESSABLE – FIRE – ALARM – SYSTEM:  

[a]  
The work under Fire fighting, fire detection and fire alarm system shall be carried out all 
as detailed in Schedule "A". 

[b]  
The work under this head shall include provision of intelligent Analogue Addressable Fire 
Detection and alarm system all as specified in Sch ‘A’. The work under system shall 
consist of furnishing all materials, equipment’s and appliances and Labour necessary to 
install the said system, complete with Detectors, Main Control Panel, Sounders, Strobes, 
Manual Call stations, relays etc, for interfacing with other systems. 

[c]  
The Tenders shall also undertake to trip from the Fire Alarm Panel through the use of 
Addressable Output Modules, individual AHU activated by the fire signal of specified 
detectors and Input Modules for monitoring water flow switches and other contacts like 
magnetic door contacts. 

[d]  
The general layout of the wiring, detectors, modules etc., shall be designed by reputed 
fire agency and submitted to GE in four copies for further approval of accepting officer.  
On approval of layout, the contractor shall submit six sets of approved design to GE and 
on completion of the contractor shall laminate on set of design and fixed to wall near fire 
alarm panel. 

36.2    
STANDARD:  The system shall meet the following design standard as required by the law of the 
country. If no specific local laws are available NFPA 72 shall be followed. 

36.2.1  
Nation Fire Protection Association [NFPA] – USA 

No.72  
–  
National Fire Alarm Code Underwriters Laboratories inc. [UL]-USA 

No. 268  
–  
Smoke Detectors for Fire Protective Signaling Systems 

No. 864  
–  
Control Units for Fire Protective Signaling Systems. 

No. 268A  –  
Smoke Detectors for Duct Applications. 

No. 521  
–  
Heat Detectors for Fire Protective Signaling Systems 

No. 464  
–  
Audible Signaling Appliances. 

No. 38  
–  
Manually Actuated Signaling Boxes. 

No. 346  
–  
Water flow indicators for Fire Protective Signaling Systems 

No. 1971  –  
Visual Notification Appliances. 

BS 5839 & Local Fire Code. 

36.3     
APPROVALS:  The system shall have proper listing and/or approval from the following nationally 
recognized agencies: 

EN-54 
 
EU-Germany 

UL 
 
Underwriters Laboratories inc 

ULC 
 
Underwriters Laboratories Canada 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 364 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

FM 
 
Factory Mutual 

MEA 
 
Material Equipment Acceptance [NYC] 

GSFM 
 
California State Fire Marshals 

36.4   
FIRE ALARM CONTROL PANEL [FACP]:  This refers to the Intelligent Analogue Addressable Panel 
that shall be connected to the various detector/devices by means of 2 wire loops. The FACP shall be 
able to supervise individual detectors for proper performance as well as to give pin point location of 
fire alarm. Hooter alarm as well as facility for cutting off of AHU’s and electrical power is also be 
included. The panel shall also have the facility for automatically dialing select phone numbers in case 
of fire. 

36.5   
LOOP:  A loop shall mean a 2-wire circuit connecting 250 Addressable Devices, which shall include not 
more than 125 Intelligent Analogue Addressable Detectors and 125 Intelligent Analogue Addressable 
input/output Modules. The loop card shall have built in short circuit isolators to accommodate Class A 
wiring. 

36.6   
INTELLIGENT ADDRESSABLE DEVICES:  This term indicates the complete group of intelligent 
addressable devices such as detectors, Manual Call Stations, Addressable Output/Input Modules etc. 

36.7   
DETECTORS:  The detectors shall have intelligent analogue addressable type. The chamber should 
be easily removable for the purpose of easy maintenance. The address programming shall be done by 
a hand held programmer or from the FACP. The detectors shall have a common base to allow easy 
interchange of various types of detectors. Address setting by DIP Switch shall not be acceptable. 

36.8   
MANUAL CALL STATION:  The Manual Call station shall be Intelligent Analogue Addressable type 
with input modules to define the station. The function shall be similar to that of Conventional Manual 
Call Box and should be reset table with replacing the glass. 

36.9. 
OUTPUT MODULE:  Output Module shall be Intelligent Analogue Addressable type and shall be used 
for. 

[a] 
Control and supervision of a notification appliance circuit for 24V DC polarized notification 
appliance. 

[b] 
Tripping the AHU, fan etc. 

36.10   
INPUT MODULE:  The input modules shall be Intelligent Analogue Addressable dual/single channel 
type Input module shall be used to connect the any normally opened dry contact devices such as 
break glass point, water flow switches etc. 

36.11   
FAULT ISOLATOR MODULE/BASE:  This unit shall be placed on the loop preferably after every 15-
20 devices and shall be able to isolate electrical short circuit in the wiring. All the other detectors shall 
remain functional because of the Class A wiring of the loop. The isolator base shall not utilize an 
address and shall be built into the detector base wherever required. 

36.12   
MONITOR MODULE:  Monitor Module shall be Intelligent Analogue Addressable type. Module shall 
be used for to connect non-addressable smoke detectors and normally opened dry contact devices 
such as break glass unit, water flow switches etc. 

36.13   
SOUNDERS:  Sounders shall be addressable type. The sounder shall drive power from separate 24 V 
DC from Control Panel. It shall be capable of being directly mounted on the wall/ceiling. The sounder 
shall have and output of at least 100 db at 1 m. The Sounder shall be program to get activated in 
event of an alarm from a single detector/device or a group of detectors/devices. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 365 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.14   
SPECIFICATION:  The design, supply and installation and testing of the entire fire alarm system 
shall conform to UL, ULC & NFPA 71 & 72. The detectors shall conform to relevant codes of Fire 
Alarm Systems. 

36.15   
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM:   

36.15.1 
The fire alarm system shall conform to UL, ULC & NFPA 71/72 in respect of design and installation, 
and it shall give Audio/Visual Alarm signals when the temperature in case of Heat Detector or smoke 
density in case of Smoke Detector exceeds the pre-set limit. The system shall give pinpoint location of 
fire with warning system and voice communication for commands and instruction if required. 

36.15.2  
The system shall be Intelligent Analogue addressable type. The basic function of the system shall be 
able to achieve pinpoint location of alarm indicator. 

36.15.3  
It shall be possible to program each loop with up to specified detectors and input/output modules. 

36.15.4  
Annunciation facility shall also be added into the FACP, the panel being able to initiate alarm signal 
for any particular zone. 

36.15.5  
The system shall be fully supervised for all fault conditions with distinctive alarm operated for fault 
and fire conditions.  

36.15.6  
The FACP shall be so programmed that when a particular detector or group of detectors gives a fire 
signal the FACP should be able to trip an individual AHU automatically. In case of fire in a area 
handled by an AHU the FACP shall be able to trigger a Relay that shall shut off the AHU through an 
additional contact provided in the AHU panel by the AC contractor. 

36.15.7  
The FACP shall have the provision for adding extra loop cards. One loop cards shall be incorporated it 
the FACP at all times. The software shall allow changing the terminal of any of the loops from any 
operating card to the spare card.  

36.15.8  
The FACP shall be networkable and shall be connect up to specified FACP & 1,60,000 Addressable 
devices. 

36.15.9  
All detectors input/output modules and control panel should be of same manufacturer. 

36.15.10  
System itself shall have facility to connect security and access control devices such as motion 
detectors, keypad/display, card reader, card reader controller etc. 

36.15.11  
System Fire Graphics software shall have provision to interface and monitor the CCTV cameras. 

36.16    
FIRE ALARM CONTROL PANEL [FACP]:  

36.16.1  
The control panel shall be one of the latest generations of Intelligent Analogue Addressable System. 
The Fire Alarm Control Panel shall be microprocessor based fully Intelligent Analogue Addressable, 
Intelligent Analogue Control unit which shall control all Intelligent, Analogue, Addressable, Detectors, 
Manual Call stations and Switching Systems. [For disconnecting AHU and power supply] connected to 
it. All addressable units shall be connected to the FACP through the loop cards and shall be addressed 
through individual numbers. 

36.16.2  
Loop card shall communicate with devices in digital form. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 366 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.16.3 
The FACP shall itself have one loop card build in and expandable to ten loops by adding loop cards. 
Each loop shall be able to address 250 Addressable Devices. At least specified FACP unit may be 
networked to enhance system capacity as and when required. All the networked panels shall display 
all the events occurring anywhere in system. Each FACP on the network shall effectively function as a 
repeater panel as well. 

36.16.4 
Loop Card shall have auto-lane facility. Auto-lane facility means loop card lanes where each device is 
installed relative to other devices on the circuit. 

36.16.5 
Control panel shall allow for cross zoning or looping of sensors i.e. a detector on any loop may be 
assigned to any zone. This will prevent the need for excessive wiring.   

 36.16.6 
The control panel should contain a non-volatile Historical Event Log with date and time and with 
minimum of 1500 events ready for display or printing. 

36.16.7 
The control panel shall have a CPU watch dog circuit to initiate trouble should the CPU fail. 

36.16.8 
The control panel shall have automatic detector maintenance alert. 

36.16.9 
The control panel shall have provision to enable or disable any addressable devices through panel 
keypad. 

36.16.10 
The control panel shall allow the programming of any input to activate any output or group of 
outputs. 

36.16.11 
Passwords shall protect any changes to system operation. 

36.16.12 
System shall provide with Ground fault LED to indicate system Ground Fault. The general layout of 
the wiring, detectors, modules, etc., is o be designed by reputed fire agency duly approved by CFEES 
Delhi is to be submitted to GE in two copies for further approval of Accepting Officer within one 
month of acceptance of tender.  On approval the contractor shall submit six sets of approved design 
to GE and on completion of work the contractor shall laminate one set of design and fixed to wall 
near fire alarm panel.  

36.16.13 
The FACP shall also give adequate warning signal whenever there is dust accumulation in detectors, 
and up to the point of its replacement it should be possible to change the level of ambient alarm 
calibration condition either by the use of software program operable by the owner or by resetting the 
detector. 

36.16.14 
Short/Open circuit units shall also be reported at the FACP. In such cases, the system through the use 
of fault isolators shall be able to isolate that segment between the two fault isolators. The missing 
Detectors/Devices shall also be reported at the FACP with identification of the location.  

36.16.15 
The FACP shall have the facility to perform walk test smoke sensor sensitivity remotely. It shall also 
be possible to set the sensitivity to a global high or global low based on night or day time. 

36.16.16 
The FACP shall have the facility to perform walk test such that an operation can periodically checked 
out for all initiating devices. As such device is placed into alarm the FACP shall print the condition and 
automatically reset the device. If a zone is inadvertently let in walk test mode, it shall automatically 
reset to normal after the idle time is exceeded. During the work test the zones other than the 
programmed zones shall be under continuous supervision [normal mode]. In case of any alarm 
initiated by detector/devices the walk test shall get terminated automatically. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 367 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.16.17 
Programming function shall include alarm/trouble type assignment, point descriptor assignment, 
alarm message assignment, etc. 

36.16.18. 
Utilising the PC setup software via laptop/desktop computer may carry out programming by 
authorized trained person only. 

36.16.19 
The FACP shall have a Liquid Crystal Display of Alphanumeric type to indicate immediately all 
conditions. The display should be high resolution, backlit 8 [Lines] X 21 Character. The FACP shall 
also be able to carry out continuous self-monitoring when in normal condition. 

36.16.20 
FACP shall have external printer coupled to the FACP, which shall log all events with time. The 
printout shall clearly indicate the event-Fire/Fault etc., with the unit address and time. 

36.16.21 
The FACP also is able to actuate switches automatically in case of Fire condition that of AHU’s and 
power supply or other systems such as piped pressurized gas supply. 

36.16.22 
The system shall be fail safe and adequate safe guards should be undertaken that in the event of 
failure of a part of the system it should not handicap the complete system. 

36.16.23 
The FACP shall also have its own Battery Backup of a minimum of 48 hours in normal run and then 
half an hour in alarm condition. 

36.16.24 
It shall be able to withstand temperature variations from O centigrade to 55 centigrade Further, 
Relative Humidity [non-condensing type] up to 95% shall not hamper its performance. The voltage 
rating shall be from 17 V DC to 31 V DC, through the voltage may change depending upon the 
working voltages of a proprietary FACP. 

36.16.25 
The FACP shall be totally enclosed dust and vermin proof type made of minimum 16 gaude dust 
inhibited sheet with even baked finish. The FACP shall be of completely solid stage design. The door 
shall provide a key lock and shall include a glass or other transparent opening for viewing of all 
indicators. 

36.16.26 
The logic circuitry shall be based on high noise immunity solid stage hardware employing modular 
construction. Logic Cards shall be of epoxy fiber glass construction.   

36.16.27 
The FACP shall have UL, ULC, LPCB, FM approval. 

36.16.28 
The system shall be designed such that it shall be possible to add at least 20% of the specified 
Detectors for future expansion without extra cost on the panel. 

36.16.29 
The FACP shall be capable of being networked [future expansion] with other same make FACP’s 
located at different part of the premises through a single RS 485 bus. 

36.16.30 
The FACP shall have provision for interfacing with the Public Address System. 

36.16.31 
The FACP shall have integrated voice evacuation facility. 

36.16.32 
The panel should have a minimum of specified zones and each zone shall have LED’s to indicate 
independently fire and fault conditions on the panel. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 368 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.17 
ADDRESSABLE DETECTORS:     

36.17.1 
Detectors shall be intelligent Analogue Addressable types. 

36.17.2 
Each Detector shall have integral microprocessor. That measure and analyse gathered information 
and make its own decision and shall not be depends on loop controller. 

36.17.3 
Detectors addressing by means of electronics [not dip switches type]. 

36.17.4 
Detectors shall have self-diagnostics and history log. 

36.17.5 
Detectors shall have automatic day/night sensitivity adjustments. 

36.17.6 
Detectors shall have automatic identification of dirty on defective detectors. 

36.17.7 
Detectors should work as standalone incase of CPU failure. 

36.17.8 
The detector shall have environmental compensation Environmental compensation means the sensing 
element adapts to long-term changes caused by direct, humidity, aging etc. 

36.17.9 
Detector shall have non-voltaic memory for storing detector type, serial number, address, date of 
manufacture, hours of operation, last maintenance date, date and time of last alarm, number of 
recorded alarms and troubles. 

36.17.10 
All detectors are fitted with plug-in system type connection, from the maintenance and compatibility 
point of views. An alarm release will not effect a detector’s good functioning. After resetting the 
alarm, the detector will resume operations without readjustment of any kind. 

36.17.11 
The detector shall be able to sense incipient fire by detecting the presence of visible and invisible 
products of combustion. The detector shall be suitable for low voltage [17 V to 24 DC] two wire 
supply. The detector shall be provided with Twin LED indication for fire and normal condition, the 
sensitivity of the detector shall not vary with change in ambient temperature, humidity, and pressure 
or voltage variation. 

36.17.12 
Neither its performance shall be affected by air velocity up to 20 metres per second. The detector 
shall be suitable protected against dust accumulation/ingress and it shall be free from maintenance 
and functional tested at intervals. All detectors shall be identical in construction design and 
characteristic to facilitate easy replacement. 

36.17.13 
The coverage per smoke detector shall strictly follow IS – 2189 standards. It shall be possible to 
connect Smoke Detector with Heat Detector or Manual Push Button in the same circuit. The sensitivity 
of Detector shall be set from the FACP to suit the site requirement. 

36.17.14 
It shall have in built locking mechanism to check the removal and pilferage of the detector. The 
quiescent current flow must be exceeding 50 micro amps and alarm condition current shall be 
maximum 50 milliamps. 

36.17.15 
The smoke detector shall be Intelligent Analogue Addressable type and be able to send digital output 
to the FACP by the pulses emitted from the FACP. 

36.17.16 
The base of the Detector shall be electronic free and interchangeable with other smoke or heat 
detectors. The enclosures shall meet IP-42 protection grade. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 369 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.17.17 
It shall be able to withstand temperature variations from -10 degree centigrade to 50 degree 
centigrade. Further, relative Humidity [non-condensing type] upto 80% shall not hamper its 
performance. The voltage rating shall be from 17V-24V DC though the voltage may be changed 
depending upon the working voltages of a proprietary FACP. 

36.17.18 
The detector shall have UL/FM, ULC, LPCB approval. 

36.17.19 
It shall be possible to mount the detectors in Duch Casting Unit for sampling of supplying Air from the 
AHU’s. 

36.17.20 
Secondary response indicators shall be provided for all the Above False Ceiling Detectors and closed 
room detectors. 

36.17.21 
LED on the detector shall blink each time the sensor is scanned by the FACP, if the FACP determines 
that the sensor is in alarm., the FACP will command the sensor LED to remain on to indicated the 
same. 

36.17.22 
It shall be possible to connect sounder base on the detector loop. The sounder shall have a sound 
output of at least 100 db at 1 mtr. 

36.18 
INTELLIGENT ANALOGUE ADDRESSABLE PHOTOELECTRIC SMOKE:   

36.18.1 
These detectors should be able to detect fire by sensing smoke at incipient stage. The sensor should 
be able sense the visible aerosol of fire. 

36.18.2 
Photo Electric Smoke Detector shall operate on the light scattering principles. 

36.19 
INTELLIGENT ANALOGUE ADDRESSABLE HEAT DETECTOR  

36.19.1 
Detectors shall be Intelligent Analogue Addressable types. 

36.19.2       Detectors shall have both rate of rise and fixed temperature operation. 

36.19.3 
Each Detector shall have integral microprocessor. That measure and analyse gathered information 
from connected components and makes its own decision. 

36.19.4 
Detectors addressing by means of electronics [not dip switches type] 

36.19.5       Detectors shall have self-diagnostics and history log. 

36.19.6 
Detectors shall have automatic identification of dirty on defective detectors. 

36.19.7 
Detectors shall have non-environmental compensation. Environment Compensations means the 
sensing element adapts to log-term changes caused by direct, humidity, aging etc. 

36.19.8 
Detectors shall have non-volatile memory for storing detector type, serial number, address, date of 
manufacture, hours of operation, last maintenance date, date and time of last alarm, number of 
recorded alarms and troubles 

36.19.9 
All detectors are fitted with plug-in system type connections, from the maintenance and compatibility 
point of views. An alarm release will not effect a detector’s good functioning. After resetting the 
alarm, the detector will resume operations without readjustment of any kind. 

36.19.10 
The detector shall be suitable for low voltage [17V to 24V DC] two wire supply. The detector shall be 
provided with Twin LED indication. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 370 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.19.11 
Neither, its performance shall be affected by air current up to 25 metre per second. The detector shall 
be suitably protected against dust accumulation/ingress and it shall be free from maintenance and 
functionally tested at intervals. All detectors shall be identical in construction design and characteristic 
to facilitate easy replacement. 

36.19.12 
The coverage per heat detector shall strictly follow IS – 2189 standards. It shall be possible to 
connect Smoke Detector with Heat Detector or Manual Push Button in the same circuit.    

36.19.13 
It shall have in-built locking mechanism to check the removal and pilferage of the detector. The 
quiescent current flow must be exceeded 50 micro amps and alarm condition current shall be 
maximum 50 milliamps.  

36.19.14 
The Heat Detectors shall be Intelligent Analogue Addressable type and be able to send digital output 
to the FACP regarding its condition. It shall be able to communicate with the FACP by the pulses 
emitted from the FACP. 

36.19.15 
The base of the Detector shall be electronics free and interchangeable with other smoke or Heat 
Detectors. The enclosures shall meet IP 42 protection standard. 

36.19.16 
It shall be able to withstand temperature variations from 0 
 degree 
centigrade 
to 
55 
degree 
centigrade. Further, Relative Humidity [non-condensing type] upto 95% shall not hamper its 
performance. The voltage rating shall be from 17V-24V DC though the voltage may be changed 
depending upon the working voltages of a proprietary FACP. 

36.19.17 
The Detector shall have UL/FM, ULC approval. 

36.19.18 
Secondary response indicators shall be provided for all the above False Ceiling Detectors. 

36.19.19 
LED on the detector shall blink each time the sensor is scanned by the FAS. If the FACP determines 
that the sensor is in alarm, the FACP will command the sensor LED to remain on to indicated the 
same. 

36.19.20 
The shall be possible to connect sounder base on the detector loop. The sounder shall have a sound 
output of at least 100 db at 1 mtr distance. 

36.20             MANUAL CALL STATIONS :   

36.20.1 
The manual Call Stations shall have UL, ULC, LPCB, FM approval. 

36.20.2       Manual Call Station shall be Intelligent Analogue Addressable types. 

36.20.3 
The Manual Station shall be a press to break type. The device shall be red in colour and suitable for 
surface or flush mounting. Manual Station shall be interfaceable to an addressable input module that 
can be accommodated within these devices. The manual station shall have normally open fire alarm 
and Annunciator contacts and these contacts shall close on activation. Contacts shall remain closed 
until station is manually reset. 

36.20.4 
Each manual Call stations shall have integral microprocessor. That measure and analyses gathered 
information and makes its own decision and shall not be depends on loop controller. 

36.20.5 
Manual Call Station addressing by means of electronic [not deep switches type,]  

36.20.6 
Manual Call Stations shall have self-diagnostics and history log. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 371 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.20.7 
Manual Call Stations shall have non-volatile memory for storing module type serial number, address, 
date of manufacture, hours of operation last maintenance date, date and time of last alarm, number 
of recorded alarm and troubles.    

36.21 
INPUT MODULES:  

36.21.1 
The input modules shall be Intelligent Analogue Addressable dual/single channel types. Input module 
shall be used to connect any normally opened by dry contact devices such as manual break glass 
unit, water flow switches etc. 

36.21.2        The Input Modules shall have UL, ULC, LPCB, FM approval. 

36.21.3     Modules shall be Intelligent Analogue Addressable types. 

36.21.4 
Each module shall have integral microprocessor. That measure and analyses gathered information 
from connected components and makes its own decision. 

36.21.5 
Modules addressing by means of electronics [not dip switches type]. 

36.21.6 
Modules shall have self-diagnostics and history log. 

36.21.7 
Modules shall have non-volatile memory for storing Module type, serial number, address, date of 
manufacture, hours of operation, last maintenance date, date and time of last alarm, number of 
recorded alarms and troubles. 

36.21.8 
Modules shall be suitable for low voltage [17 V to 24V DC] two wire supply. Modules shall be provided 
with Twin LED indication. 

36.21.9 
Input modules shall have multiple applications such as alarm, delayed latching [retard] for water flow 
switches, supervisory, etc. 

36.21.10 
Module shall allow the programmer to select the Module for particular application. 

36.22 
OUTPUT MODULES :  

36.22.1 
Output Module shall be Intelligent Analogue Addressable type and shall be used for: 

[a] 
Control and supervision of a notification appliance circuit for 24V DC polarized notification 
appliances. 

[b] 
Tripping the AHU fan etc. 

36.22.2 
The output module shall have UL, ULC, LPCB, FM approval. 

36.22.3 
Modules shall be Intelligent Analogue Addressable types. 

36.22.4 
Each Module shall have integral microprocessors. The measures and analysis gathered information 
from connected components and makes its own decision. 

36.22.5 
Modules addressing by means of electronics [not dip switches types]. 

36.22.6 
Modules shall have self-diagnostics and history log. 

36.22.7 
Modules shall have non-volatile memory for storing Module type, serial number, address, date of 
manufacture, hours of operation, last maintenance date, date and time of last alarm, number of 
recorded alarms and troubles. 

36.22.8 
The Modules shall be suitable for low voltage [17V to 24 V DC] two wire supply. The Modules shall be 
provided with Twin LED indication. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 372 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.23 
REPEATER PANEL : 

36.23.1 
The repeater Panel shall have UL, ULC, LPCB FM approval. 

36.23.2 
The Alarm Repeater/Annunciator Panel shall display fire/fault messages simultaneously with the 
FACP, it shall be capable of interfacing with FACP on a single RS 485 Bus. The Panel shall be capable 
of operating on 24 V DC supply. 

36.23.3 
The panel shall have 8x21 character backlit alphanumeric LCD Display which shall display date time 
and description of alarm/trouble events that are displayed in the FACP with an inbuilt buzzer to 
indicate fault/fire alarm. 

36.23.4 
The Repeater Panel shall be powered from the FACP. 

36.23.5 
It shall have control keys for Alarm Silence, Trouble Silence and to Reset the FACP from the repeater 
station. 

36.23.5 
More number of LCD Repeater Panels [Only Repeat Panels] should be able to be connected on the 
same communication line. 

36.23.6 
Repeater Panel shall allow the programmer to program the Repeater Panel to display the fire and 
fault condition of a particular loop or a particular panel. 

36.24 
SPRINKLER SYSTEM:  

36.24.1  
Tapping shall be taken from each riser and a network of piping shall be kept under pressure and 
whenever sprinkler bulb breaks, water sprinkled immediately and the reduction of pressure 
automatically sensed thereby switching ON the sprinkler pump. The applicable codes and Latest 
Standards published by the Bureau of India Standards shall govern the design, workmanship, quality 
and properties of materials and method of testing. 

36.24.2  
After erection, the sprinkler system shall be tested to show the satisfactory performance in line with 
the requirements of the specification. The following tests shall be undertaken: 

[i] 
Automatic starting of sprinkler pumps by actuating the sprinkler head. 

[ii] 
Automatic starting of all fire pumps without breaking the sprinkler bulbs by operating the 
test valves in the pump house. 

[iii] 
Complete sequence of sprinkler annunciator panel shall be activated for the system 
requirement. 

36.24.3        Record Drawings :  Contractor has to submit 3 sets of following drawings: -  

(i)  Layout /line plan of fire alarm system.  
(ii) Inventory of fittings & fixtures 
(iii) Operation & Maintenance manual. 
(iv) Site Test Records.” 
 

36.25 
FIRE HOSE PIPE & HOSE COUPLING:  

36.25.1  
This shall be of size 63mm controlled percolation type manufactured by Jai Shree Textiles Limited and 
bearing the ISI mark specially designed for Fire Fighting purpose and duly approved by Tariff Advisory 
Committee.  It shall comply with IS-8423 – 1977. 

36.25.2 
All hose coupling shall be of instantaneous spring lock type and nozzle shall be of 20mm dia. 

36.25.3 
HOSE CABINET:  This shall be made of mild steel with glass in front to accommodate two pieces of 
hoses pipes and one branch pipe with lock and key. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 373 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.26 
    Record drawings: Contractor has to submit 3 sets of following drawings: -  

(i)  Layout /line plan of fire alarm system.  
(ii) Inventory of fittings & fixtures 
(iii) Operation & Maintenance manual. 
(iv) Site Test Records.” 
36.26.1 
After completion of work, the entire system shall be tested by contractor by 3 rd  party viz TUV/ LRS/ 
IRS as approved by GE in the presence of Engineer-in-Charge and the results of such test shall be 
recorded and signed by both parties. Quoted rates shall be inclusive of testing in accordance with the 
modern Engineering practice and MES SSR Part-I (specifications). 

36.27 
FIRE FIGHTING:  

36.27.1     SCOPE OF WORK:   The scope of work consists of the following: 

[a] 
Provision of MS ERW/ DI pipes.  

[b] 
Fire fighting Equipment viz. Fire hydrant’s Stand Post type, Rubber lined hoses, first aid 
hose reel, fire hose delivery couplings, branch pipes, nozzles etc. 

[c] 
Provision of Sluice Valves, Butterfly Valves, Valve pits etc. 

[d] 
Third Party Inspection of pipes 

[e] 
Testing and commissioning of installation  

[f] 
Spilt Casing, multistage, electrical motor driven centrifugal pump, Diesel engine driven 
pumps, jockey centrifugal pump, centrifugal mono block pump and connected items as 
specified in Schedule "A".   

36.27.2 
GENERAL:  Scope of work has been specified in Schedule "A". Tenderer is to design, supply, install, 
test and commission of fire fighting system. Pipeline layout and position of each fire hydrant to be 
shown in as built drawing.     

36.27.3      APPLICABLE CODES AND STANDARDS: 

IS – 908 
Fire Hydrants stand post type 

IS – 636 
Specification for rubber lined hose [63mm dia hoses] 

IS – 14846 
Specification for sluice valves for water works purpose 

IS – 884 
Specification for fire hose delivery couplings, branch pipe, nozzles and nozzle spanner 

IS – 8329 
Ductile Iron pipes 

IS – 9523 
Ductile Iron fittings 

IS – 12288 
Laying of Ductile Iron Pipes 

IS – 5382 
Quality of Rubber Gasket 

IS – 12820 
Dimension of Rubber Gasket 

IS – 1239, IS 
3589, IS 
4923 

Steel pipes, ERW Steel tubes dimensions 

The IS codes specified as above or latest IS codes applicable 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 374 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.27.4  FIRE FIGHTING PUMP: 

36.27.5  PUMP:  

 

[a] 
Discharge 
As specified in Schedule "A" 

[b] 
Head 
As specified in Schedule "A" 

[c] 
Type of Pumps 
As specified in Schedule "A" 

[d] 
Pipe line size 
As specified in Schedule "A" or As 

shown on drawing 

[e] 
Minimum pressure required at each fire 
hydrant at fag end 
5.25 KG/Sq.cm or higher if needed 

[f] 

Minimum discharge required through 5 mm 
nozzle when fixed on 30 m length of hose 
pipe  

800 Litres / Minute or as per latest 

standards 

[g] 
Height up to which one jet shall throw water 
As specified in Schedule "A" 

[h] 
Horizontal distance to be covered by one 
water jet 
As specified in Schedule "A" 

36.27.6 
Pump shall conform to provision of IS – 12469. Material used in pump will be corrosion resistant like 
brass or bronze having minimum copper content of 80 percent.  

36.27.7 
The pump casing shall be axially split or radially split with back pullout features to permit 
examination of impellers and other interior parts without disturbing suction of discharge piping.  A 
drain opening shall be provided so that all the water piping.  A drain opening shall be provided so 
that all the water in pump casing can be drained.  Impellers and wearing rings shall be of corrosion 
and abrasion resistant material.  Shaft sleeve, sealing cage, gland nut and drain plug shall be of 
corrosion resistant material.  Impeller shall be of stainless steel. 

36.27.8 
Line shaft sections shall be connected by a threaded coupling or a muff or a sleeve coupling. Water 
lubricated bearing shall be used.  It shall consist of cutlets rubber molded in corrosion resistant 
metal shells.  

36.27.9 
The pump shall have continuously rising type performance characteristic. The pump shall give not 
less than 150% of the rated capacity at a total head of not less than 65% of the total rated head.  
The shut off head shall not exceed 120% of the rated head. 

36.27.10 
ELECTRIC INTERLOCK:  

36.27.10.1 
Jockey pump will be connected from main fire fighting tank for suction and to the main header 
which is again connected to air vessel. Air Vessel will have three pressure differential switches. First 
pressure differential switch will give command signal to Jockey pump starters to start the pump 
when pressure in air vessel goes lower than 9.0 KG/Sq.cm. Second pressure switch will give 
command signal to stop jockey pump when pressure in air vessel reaches 10.5 KG/Sq.cm. Third 
pressure switch will give command signal to start main fire fighting pump when pressure goes lower 
than 5.25 KG/Sq.cm. All these four pumps shall have interlocking and safety feature as enumerated 
below: 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 375 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[a] In case main pump starts and jockey pump is also running then jockey pump should stop 
automatically, 

 [b] 
In case first jockey pump gets the command signal to start but fails to start, it will give 
command signal to second jockey pump.  If both the jockey pumps fail to start, then it should give 
an alarm which will stop when it is acknowledged. Same arrangement shall be made for main fire 
fighting pumps. 

[c]           Both the main fire fighting pumps shall be numbered as 1 & 2. Command signal to start 

the main pump will first give command to pump No.1. In case it fails to start, it will give command 
signal to pump No. 2 to start and give alarm also. 

36.27.10.2 
There shall be a panel to house all the starters and logic control connected from differential 
pressure switches.  Cost of all these arrangement including hooter for alarm, relay, contactors, 
panel, wiring required for making logical control for all these pumps and their safety features is 
deemed to be included in the quoted cost of Jockey running/ OFF position through green/red 
lights.  

36.27.10.3 
In Schedule “A”, pressure gauge have been catered though position of pressure gauges has not 
been marked in drawing. Position of fixing these gauges will be shown by Engineer-in-Charge 
during the course of execution. These pressure gauges shall be fixed on line but not in the pump 
house.  Pressure gauges to be fixed with pumps and air vessel is already covered under Schedule 
"A" with respective items.  

36.27.10.4 
At each hydrant point fitted externally, 100 mm dia stand post shall be provided with 63 mm dia 
single outlet landing valve as shown in drawing. For internal fire hydrant fitted inside the building. 
Suitable CI Pipe shall be provided as a stand post and single outlet fire hydrant with hose reel as 
given in Schedule "A" shall be fixed.  The location of single out let fire hydrant has been shown is 
firm as fire hydrants, for Bldg shall be the location as directed by GE.    

36.27.11 
BRANCH PIPE:  It shall conform to IS – 9871 or latest IS. Branch pipe shall consist of body, 
diffuser and nozzle.  Casting and forging of branch pipe shall be made of copper alloys. All parts 
shall be of good workmanship and finish. The forging and casting shall be sound and free from 
pits, blow holes, scales, cracks and other imperfections and hall not repaired  or filled so as to 
hide casting defects. The waterway shall have a smooth finish. The interior of the fitting hall be 
rounded and made smooth.  

36.27.12 
LANDING VALVE: 

36.27.12.1  
Valves shall confirm to IS – 5290 or latest IS. Valve body, stop valve, check nut, instantaneous 
female outlet, male outlet and blank cap shall be made of leaded tin bronze.  The valve spindle 
shall be made of brass rod.  The hand wheel shall be made of mild steel. 

36.27.12.2 
All parts shall be of good finish, clear of burrs and sharp edges.  All castings shall be clean and 
sound and shall be free from plugging, welding or repair of any defect.  

36.27.12.3 
The valve top except the face of the flange and the instantaneous outlet shall be painted fire red 
of shade No. 536 of IS – 5 or latest IS. The outside of instantaneous outlet hall be highly 
polished. The hand wheel shall be painted black.  Paints shall conform to IS – 2932 or latest IS. 

36.27.13 
HOSE PIPE:  All hose shall be of 63 mm dia of rubber lined, woven jacketed complying with Type 
– II [reinforced] rubber lined conforming to IS – 636. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 376 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.27.14 
COUPLING: 

36.27.14.1 
All male/female coupling fitted with hose, nozzle shall be of instantaneous spring lock type and 
the nozzle shall be of not less than 25mm in dia. Coupling branch pipe and nozzle hall comply 
with IS – 903.  Material of coupling shall be copper alloy conforming to details given in IS – 903. 
Hose shall be attached to the coupling the following manner: 

36.27.14.2 
Each half of the coupling shall have two 5 mm diameter holes drilled in the tail. The hose shall be 
first fixed to the tail of the coupling with copper rivets then served or bound with 1.5 mm copper 
wire for a length of 50 mm which will extend to the outer end of the grooving on the coupling 
tail; over the copper wire leather or equally protective band shall be bound with four strands of 
1.12 mm copper wire at each end of the band. The protective band shall be carried beyond the 
tail of the coupling to prevent kinking. Copper wire used shall be softened before being used. 
Coupling attached to the shoe otherwise than by copper rivets shall not be accepted as they are 
apt to become dislodged under pressure. 

36.27.15   
AIR VESSEL: 

36.27.15.1 
Air vessel of adequate capacity should be installed in the pump house, with pressure switches 
incorporated on the delivery pipe. There should be two pressure switches – one with upper and 
lower limit for jockey pump and another only for lower pressure limit for the main pump.  
Topping of main pump should be done by manual push button which should be prominently 
indicated on the pump panel. 

36.27.15.2 
The air vessel required to be connected with common header so that Jockey pump and main 
pumps can be monitored.  Pressure vessel shall be of vertical type having built in flanged inlet 
outlet connection of suitable size.  The pressure vessel should be fabricated with min 6.0 mm 
thick M.S sheet and given two coat of epoxy paint over a coat of primer on both inside and 
outside surface.  Minimum dimension of Air vessel shall be as under: 

[a] 
Dia of air vessel  :  
0.80 Metres 

[b] 
Height of air Vessel 
:  
1.20 Metres 

 
[c] 
Volume of air vessel 
:  
540 Litres 

36.27.16 
HOSE CABINET:  Hose cabinet will have adequate space to house 30 metre long hose, Fire 
hydrant, branch pipe, adopter etc. Hose cabinet shall be fabricated with 3 mm thick MS sheet 
duly coated with 1 mm thick FRP coating on both surfaces [internal and external].  Each box shall 
include the following features: 

[a] 
Glazed with wired glass. 

[b] 
Fire brigade dry hose painted on the inner face of the glass in 50 mm block letters. 

[c] 
Fastened only by a spring lock which can also be operated from the inside without a key 
after the glass has been broken.  

36.27.17 
FIRE HYDRANT STAND POST:  Fire hydrant shall consist of MS pipe as per IS – 1239 or latest 
IS. The fire hydrant valve shall be gunmetal as per IS – 318, LTB2 grade, spindle shall be brass. 
The complete item shall have TAC approval. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 377 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.27.18 
NON – RETURN VALVE:  For domestic fresh water, technological water and recalculating water 
pumps, non return valve shall be able to withstand gauge working pressure as 1.0 MPA. For fire 
fighting it shall be able to withstand 1.6 MPA gauge working pressure. Material, size, weight and 
design shall conform to IS – 5312 [Part – I]. Material of various parts shall conform to basic 
material given in IS – 5312 [Part – I] and not alternative material suggested in the IS. Valves 
shall be provided with by pass arrangement, 15mm size stop valve conforming to IS – 781 shall 
be provided to control the flow in by pass line and cost of this line and valve is deemed to be 
included in the quoted cost of non return valve.  

36.27.19 
FOOT VALVE:  Foot valve will have a strainer as an integral part. It should conform to IS – 10808 
/ IS – 4038. The total area of the opening in a strainer should be such that the velocity head is 
minimum. In any case it should be more than the cross sectional area of the suction pipe. The 
strainer should have smooth slotted perforations, which are properly streamlined to reduce 
turbulence of flow into it. Area of opening of the base plate on which the valve rests should be 
equal to or more than the area of the suction pipe. The valve should be so hinged that it opens 
nearly full.  

36.27.20 
DIESEL ENGINE DRIVEN PUMP:  

36.27.20.1 
Design, Supply, installation, testing & commissioning of diesel Engine driven pumps, horizontal 
split case, with gland packing and cables etc., to deliver Capacity as specified in BOQ or suitable 
HP discharge, It should confirm to NFPA-20/IS-12469,  complete with level switch arrangement 
for fuel oil storage tank accordance with latest IS code, coupling, foundation bolts coupling guard, 
Residential grade exhaust, cooling piping etc.  

36.27.20.2 
Exhaust piping should be thermal insulated. Shut off pressure shall not exceed 120%. The power 
rating should consider the altitude and temperature factor of the site and have the base power 
higher of the following two factors - (The power required to drive the pump set at 150% of its 
rated discharge). Materials of construction of the pump should be C.I. (IS:210 Gr FG260) casing, 
Bronze LTB2 (IS:318, Gr LTB2) impeller and SS 410 shaft & shaft sleeve. 

36.27.20.3 
The panel shall be provided with battery charger along with all necessary selector switches and 
indicators such as Indication lamp (LED type) -  Ac supply on, start failure,  Low lub oil pressure, 
high water temp., over speed trip, low fuel level, water heater on, engine running, hooter  off, 
Hydrant pressure normal, Switch / Push buttons -  Start, stop, reseat, hooter on/ off, supply on / 
off, charging selection, auto / off / manual, water heater on / off , Meters – DC Amps., DC 
voltage. assembled and Factory Tested complete confirming to latest IS code.  

36.27.20.4  
TESTING:   Pump performance shall be computed from the pump curves provided by 
manufacturer. 

36.27.21 
APPROVAL DRAWING:  The contractor has to submit the drawings for approval of accepting 
officer before manufacture and supply for execution at site. 

36.27.22 
INSPECTION:  The contractor has to arrange online/visual factory inspection before dispatch of 
material to the site and the cost incurred for the same is deemed to be included in the quoted 
rate and the same has to be intimated to the department.  

36.27.23 
TESTING AND COMMISSIONING:  The Diesel Engine load test in accordance with latest NFPA 
20/IS code, which is deemed to be included in quoted rate will be carried out after successful 
testing and commissioning of Diesel Engine driven pump set in presence of Electrical 
Inspector/rep of DGNP(V) nominated by accepting officer and the contractor has to be submit the 
test results obtained in 03 copies to the department.  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 378 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.27.24 
RECORD OF   MANNUAL & DOCUMENTATION: 
 

(a)   The contractor has to submit the 03 sets of as built drawings and submission of manuals and 

documentations complete after successful completion of testing and commissioning of the Pumps 
and Motors. 
(b)   The complete external fire fighting pipe line and hydrant system including the Coordinates of pipe 

line and numbering of hydrants complete all as specified and directed by Engr-in-Charge. 
 
(c)   The Third party inspection test reports of the fire fighting hydrant system complete to be 

submitted to the department in 03 sets.  
 
36.28  
COUPLED CENTRIFUGAL PUMPING SET EQUIPMENT [PUMPS]: 

36.28.1 
TYPE:  The domestic water pumps shall be Horizontal split casing multi stage pump shall 
conforming to IS – 1520: 1980 or latest IS and shall be of make given in the tender. The 
equipment shall be capable of developing the required total head at rated capacity. The pumps 
shall run smooth without undue noise and vibration. The magnitude of peak to peak vibration at 
shop shall be limited to 75 microns at the bearing housing. After installation at site the magnitude 
of vibration shall be limited to 50 microns. The pump shall be coupled or connected to motor.    

36.28.2 
PUMP:  The pump shall be coupled or connected to motor.  The pump casing shall be of cast 
iron. Impeller shall be of bronze hydraulically balanced and keyed to shaft. Stuffing boxes with 
mechanical seal shall be integral with casing and water sealed shaft sleeve shall be of gunmetal 
extending through stuffing boxes.  

36.28.3 
CASING:  Pump casing shall be close-grained cast iron of heavy section, horizontal split-casing 
making possible complete servicing of rotating parts without breaking piping or motor connection.  
Motor to pump connection shall be done with flexible coupling.  Suction passages shall be of 
volute form promoting smooth entry to impeller and increased efficiency.  

36.28.4 
IMPELLER:  Impeller shall be of bronze or gunmetal double suction, enclosed type and 
hydraulically balanced so as not to cause any vibration during operation. Impeller shall be 
securely keyed to the shaft. Means shall be provided to prevent loosening during operation 
including rotation in reverse direction. Impeller fastening nuts [if provided] shall be of cap type 
and shall tighten in the direction of normal rotation.  

36.28.5 
WEARING RINGS:  Wearing rings shall be renewable type. These shall be held in place by 
screwing against rotation, press fit and locked with pins, flanged and screwed.  

36.28.6 
SHAFT:  Shaft shall be made of steel, protected by gunmetal sleeves. It shall be finished to close 
tolerance at the impeller coupling pulley and bearing diameter. The impellers pulley and shaft 
sleeves shall be firmly secured to the shaft by key/nuts. The shafts size shall be calculated on the 
maximum combined shear stress. The shear stress shall not exceed 30 per cent of the elastic limit 
in tension or 18 percent of ultimate tensile strength whichever is lower.   

36.28.7 
SHAFT SLEEVES:  Shaft sleeves shall be of gunmetal, provided to protect the shaft where it 
passes through stuffing boxes. Shaft sleeves shall be securely locked or keyed to the shaft to 
prevent loosening.  Rotating shaft and shaft sleeves shall be machined and assembled for 
concentric rotation.  

36.28.8 
BEARINGS:  The bearing may be ball roller or sleeves type. Provision shall be made to take axial 
and radial loads. Oil level indicators shall be provided in oil baths. Where there is a possibility of 
liquid entering the bearing, the pump shall be provided with suitable preventive arrangement 
such as water deflectors. Bearings shall be easily accessible without disturbing the alignment of 
the pump. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 379 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.28.9 
Stuffing boxes shall be of such design that it can be re-packed, without removing any part other 
than the gland and lantern ring. Stuffing boxes shall be so designed by mechanical seals. In case 
where lantern ring is used, it shall be sandwiched between rows of packing and shall be easily 
removable. Lantern ring shall be of axially split type. 
36.28.10 
COUPLINGS:  Pumps shall be furnished complete with and approved type of flexible couplings. 
Spacer type couplings shall be provided when required, to permit disassembling or without 
disturbing pump driver. Coupling guards shall be made of expanded metal and bolted to the base 
plate shall be furnished for all coupled pumps. 
36.28.11 
BASE PLATES:  The common base plate for pump and motor shall be in one place and it shall be 
made of cast iron or welded steel construction. Suitable holes shall be provided for grouting and 
they shall be so located that the base can be grouted in places without disturbing the pump and 
motor. All pumps and motors shall be properly aligned bolted and doweled to the base plates.  
Adequate space shall be provided between pump drain connections and base plate for installation 
of minimum 15mm drain piping. Pump shall be supplied with suitable drain pans or base plates 
with trapped drain connections. 
36.28.12  
PUMP MOUNTING:  The pump should be mounted firmly on concrete foundation of minimum 
150mm thickness with vibration absorbing layer. The foundation should be at least equal in 
length to the common base plate of pump, motor and flexible coupling between pump and motor. 
A minimum clearance of 1.00 meter at front and back and 0.75 meter on sides and between 
pumps should be provided for the pumps. For smaller pumps like Jockey pumps, clearance 
required should be 0.75 meter at front and back, 0.6 meter at sides and between pumps. The 
pumps shall be mounted on proper vibration pad to isolate the vibration generated due to miss 
alignment/defect in bearing or any other rotating part.  Vibration pad should have proper match 
with weight of the pump and working condition at site. Cost of vibration pad is deemed to be 
included in the quoted cost of pump. 
36.28.13 
MATERIAL:  Material of different parts of pump will be as under: 

[a] 
Casing   
 
 
:  
Cast iron (IS:210 Gr FG260)   
[b] 
Impeller 
 
 
:  
Bronze /Gun metal LTB2 (IS:318, Gr LTB2) 
[c] 
Neck ring  
 
 
:  
Bronze  
[d] 
Shaft   
 
 
:  
Stainless steel (SS 410) 
[e] 
Shaft sleeve and nut  
 
:  
Bronze /Gun metal  
[f] 
Bearing housing  
 
:  
Cast iron  
[g] 
Logging ring  
 
 
:  
Brass 
[h] 
Gland   
 
 
:  
Brass 
[j] 
Packing  
 
 
:  
Graphite packing  
[k] 
Stuffing box  
 
 
:  
Bronze   
 
 
 
 
36.28.14 
ELECTRIC MOTOR: 

36.28.14.1 
Motor shall be squirrel case induction, SPDP or TEFC type as approval by GE. It shall be suitable 
for operation on AC, 3 Phase, 50 Hz, 415 ±10% Volts supply. Motor shall have capacity to run the 
pumps at its full load at 1450 rpm power for jockey pump motor 2900 is permitted. Motor shall be 
provided with extra capacity to meet the throttling load. Capacity of motor shall be selected in 
such a manner that it shall be capable to operate the pump with its full capacity. The make of the 
pump and motor shall be of the same manufacturer. The motor shall be of continuous rating 
type. Motor of main pumps of Fresh water shall have soft starter or Star Delta starter as 
mentioned in Schedule "A". Necessary back up protection shall be provided to soft starter or Star 
Delta starter in the form of SFU with the ACB/MCCB/HRC fuses. 

36.28.14.2 
The motor shall be TEFC type, having their air inlets and outlets covering with iron meshed wire, 
panels to avoid entry of rodents, reptiles and insects. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 380 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
36.28.14.3 
The motor shall be wounded for class "B" insulation and windings shall be vacuum impregnated 
with heat and moisture resisting varnish and preferably glass fiber insulated to withstand tropical 
conditions. Provision shall be made for overload protection of the motor. Protective relays shall be 
provided on the pump control panel to protect the pump against phase reversal, low voltage and 
phase failure. The cost of such protective devices is deemed to be included in the rate quoted by 
the contractor.  

36.28.15 
LUBRICATION:  Upon installation of the complete system and before testing, the pump shall be 
lubricated strictly in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.  

36.28.16 
PUMP ALIGNMENT:  All pumps prior to testing shall be aligned with a dial indicator within 0.05 
mm.  

36.28.17 
PAINTING:  All pump motors and bases shall be supplied with approved finish. Shop coat of 
paint that have become marred during shipment or erection shall be cleaned off with mineral 
spirits, wire brushed and spot primed over the affected areas and then coated with enamel paint 
to match the adjoining areas.  

36.28.18 
ELECTRICAL WIRING AND APPARATUS: All electricity supply lines and apparatus in connection 
with pump installation shall be so installed.  Protected and maintained that there will be no 
danger to persons there from.  All metal castings or metallic coverings containing or protecting 
any supply lines or apparatus shall be efficiently earthed.  
 
36.28.19 
PERFORMANCE DATA: Pump performance curves and power consumption with operating points 
clearly indicated shall be submitted and verified at the time of testing and commissioning of the 
installation.  
 
36.28.20 
TESTING: Pump performance shall be computed from the pump curves provided by 
manufacturer.  
36.28.21 
EARTHING: 

36.28.21.1 
Earthing terminals and earth connections to various equipment’s and accessories forming part of 
the generating set installation which normally carry electrical current and all metallic parts which 
are likely to be electrical charged shall be earthed with suitable earth continuity conductor[s] all in 
conformity with requirements of IS – 3043 and as per IE rule. 

36.28.21.2 
In all panel, a GI strip of size 32 mm X 6 mm shall be provided to the full length of panel.  Every 
incoming and out going switch and metal parts of panel board shall be connected to the earth 
strip through suitable size conductor at two points. Cost of copper strip fixed inside in the panel is 
deemed to be included in the cost of panel.  Earthing will conform to IS – 3043: 1987. Two 
distinct earths shall be provided and connected to copper strip or GI strip as directed by Engineer 
– in – Charge. 

36.28.21.3 
The location of earth termination shall be directed by Engineer – in – Charge.  Earth electrode 
shall be of galvanised mild steel.  The maximum of resistance to earth termination shall not be 
more than 2.0 ohm. The earthing work shall be carried out in accordance with IS – 3043 or latest 
IS code of practice for earthing. 

36.28.22 
APPROVAL DRAWING:  The contractor has to submit the drawings for approval of accepting 
officer before manufacture and supply for execution at site.  

36.28.23 
RECORD OF   MANNUAL & DOCUMENTATION: 
The contractor has to submit the 03 sets 
of as built drawings and submission of manuals and documentations complete after successful 
completion of testing and commissioning of the Pumps and Motors. 

36.28.24 
INSPECTION:  The contractor has to arrange online/visual factory inspection before dispatch of 
material to the site and the cost incurred for the same is deemed to be included in the quoted 
rate and the same has to be intimated to the department.  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 381 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37. 
LIFTS:  Quoted Rate shall be inclusive of comprehensive maintenance of all the lifts during Defects 
Liability Period [24Months after completion of Phase-II]. Comprehensive maintenance of all the lifts 
after Defects liability Period shall be measured and Paid Saperately under respective Schedules. 

37.1. 
SCOPE OF WORK:   

37.1.1. 
The work under this contract comprises fabricating, supplying, installing, commissioning and testing of 
electrically operated lifts. The contractor shall include for provision of landing door at each floor landing 
as specified as well as wiring from the MCCB Four Pole 63 A [1 Each] in machine rooms to various 
circuits and motors including provision of joists for mounting the machines and earth connections for 
equipment from one independent point and earth pit in machine rooms.  

37.1.2. 
The specifications are intended to cover the complete supply and installation of the lifts in first class 
workman like manner for the above mentioned purposes and to include all work and materials as 
specified and shown in the drawing. 

37.1.3. 
The work shall be carried out in accordance with:  

[i]  
The Local / State / Municipal Rules for electric lifts.    

[ii]  
The code of practice for installation, operation and maintenance of Electric Lifts for passengers 
IS – 1980. 

[iii]  
Outline Dimensions of Electric lifts IS – 9534.   

[iv] 
Indian Electricity Act 1910 

37.1.4. 
In case of any discrepancy in Specification between the State Acts/Rules and relevant IS specification, 
the superior specifications shall be adopted and shall be clearly brought out in their offer.  All materials 
fittings appliances etc used in electrical installation shall confirm to the relevant ISS.  Where ISS do not 
exist, the materials shall be approved by the Garrison Engineer which shall be in writing. 

37.1.5. 
Tenderer shall have to check dimensions given in drawings.  

37.1.6. 
The dimensions shown in the drawing for the lift pits may be at slight variance with the stipulation of IS 
for lift cars. The tenderer is required to offer the car size to accommodate the persons and or capacity 
of lift as specified in Schedule “A”. The tenderer shall give the confirmation to this effect specifically. 

37.1.7.   In the machine room, the position of ISMB Hooks for lifting lift and cut out is as per relevant IS. 

37.1.8.   The design of the floor of the machine room, foundations, and beams etc for erecting / hoisting of the 

motor and other equipment shall be checked by the contractor and any change in structural details 
landing details of floors and beams of layout details of the machine room etc shall be carried out as 
approved by the engineer in charge. 

37.1.9. 
Changes, if any in the lift well dimensions as given in the drawing shall be brought out by the tenderer 
in his offer. 

37.1.10. Requirement of power switches, their capacity, light points [if any] and their exact positions shall also 

be notified by the tenderer in his offer ,the cost of provision of the same deemed to be included in the 
rate quoted. 

37.1.11. A general schematic arrangements of lifts for each type of building shall be submitted by the contractor 

within one month from the date of acceptance of tender. The general schematic arrangement should 
depict the outline of all major components of the lift, namely car, motor, counter weight, buffers, relays 
etc along with outline dimensions and other broad specifications. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 382 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.1.12. Any deviation in tenders offer vis-à-vis the description of Schedule "A" and particular specifications, 

drawings etc forming part of this tender shall be clearly brought out by the tenderer with financial effect 
if any. 

37.2. 
PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS:  

37.2.1. 
The contractor shall obtain approval of all necessary / Local / State / Central Government authorities as 
the case may be and make arrangements for inspections and tests required thereof. 

37.2.2. 
The charges, if any, for obtaining approval, inspection and tests required by above stated authorities 
shall be borne by the contractor and nothing extra is payable on any reason. 

37.3. 
DESIGN STANDARD:  

37.3.1.  The design and manufacturer of the lift car, lifting equipment and all other accessories to be 

incorporated in this work shall be of the highest standard and in conformity with modern engineering 
practice robust in construction liberally rated for efficient and economical operation. 

37.3.2. 
All elements of works, equipment's, accessories and safety measures which may not have been 
specifically brought out in these specifications but which are essential for efficient and trouble free 
performance for the lifts shall be deemed to be provided by the tenderer and the cost of the same shall 
be deemed to be covered under the unit rate quoted by the tenderer against Schedule "A". Contractor 
shall furnish details in respect of each type of lift offered vis-à-vis Schedule "A" as per Appendix “B” to 
these Particular Specifications. 

37.3.3. 
The contractor shall submit within 120 days of acceptance his tender his own specifications 
and detailed design in accordance with the tender specifications and shall submit details of 
lifts and equipment's offered by him as per Appendix "C" given in these particular 
specifications of these tender documents and as per IS – 3534, IS – 1860, IS-  4501, IS – 
4666, IS – 4289, IS – 732, IS – 325, IS – 1626 and IS – 2266 and existing Andhra Pradesh 
Government Lift Rules and Local Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation Rules for 
approval of Accepting Officer before placing order for procurement and Inspection and 
Testing of the Lift on completion shall be carried out by the representative of the Accepting 
Officer.   

37.3.3A 
A ref of accepting officer shall visit OEMs factory permises for factory testing of lifts and he shall submit 
the report to the Accepting Officer. The contractor shall intimate the GE/Accepting Officer in advance 
for factory inspection before despatch of lift and shall make all arrangements for visit of the officer. 
However, TA/DA of the officer shall be borne by the Govt.  

37.3.4. 
The work shall be carried out in accordance with the following standards, code of practice etc. The 
same shall be latest print incorporating up to date amendments. 

[a] 
The local/state/Municipal rules / Acts of Electric lifts. 
[b] 
Indian Electricity Act 1910 
[c] 
Indian Electricity Rules 1956 
[d] 
IS – 1960 Code of Practice for Installation, Operation and Maintenance of Electric Passenger 
and Goods Lifts. 
[e] 
IS – 3534 Outline Dimensions of Electric Lifts. 
[f] 
IS – 4666 Electric Passenger and Goods Lifts, Specifications  
[g] 
IS – 4289 [Part I] Specifications for Flexible Cables for Lifts and other connections. 
[h] 
IS – 2365 Specification for Steel Wire Suspension Ropes for Lifts, Elevators and Hoists. 
[i] 
IS – 732 Code of Practice for Electrical Wiring Installations. 
[j] 
IS – 325 Specification for Three Phase Indicator Motors. 
[k] 
IS – 3043: Code of Practice for Earthing 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 383 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[l] 
IS – 9878: Specifications for Safety Gears and Governor for Electric Passenger and Goods 
Lifts. 
[m] 
IS – 10191: Specification for Car and Counter Weight Guide Rails, Guide Rail Supports and 
Fastenings of Lifts. 
[n] 
IS – 9803: Specification for Buffers for Electric Passenger and Goods Lifts. 
[o] 
National Building Code 1993 
[p] 
IS – 7759: Specification for Lift Door Locking Devices and Contacts. 
[q] 
IS – 10913: Specification for Brakes for Electric Passenger and Goods Lift 
[r] 
IS – 11615: Specification for Car and Counter Weight Guide for Electric Passenger and Good 
Lifts. 
[s] 
IS – 11633: Specification for lift doors. 
[t] 
IS – 11706 General Requirements of Car Frame for Electric Passenger and Goods Lift. 
[u]      
Fire Resistance as per Clause 8.3.14.1 of IS – 14665. 
[v]       
Over Load Protection as per Clause 6.2 of IS – 14665 [Para 3 Section 2]. 
[w]     
Emergency Alarm Bell as per Table 2 of IS – 14665 [Part – 5] for Standard Passenger. 
[x] 
IS – 14665 [Part – I]: Electric traction lifts, Part – I Guidelines for outline dimension of 
passenger, goods, service and hospital lifts. 

 

37.3.5. 
The contractor shall supply lifts of any one make specified here- in- after. The components / Parts of 
Lifts manufactured by the OEM and those components / Parts not manufactured by OEM then makes / 
manufacturers provided as per his standard and total lift under DLP is 24 months after completion.. 

37.3.6. 
All elements of work, requirement, accessories, safety gear etc. which may have not been specifically 
brought out in these specifications but which are essential for efficient and trouble free performance for 
the lift shall deemed to be provided by the contractor and the cost of the same shall deemed to be 
covered under the unit rate quoted by the tenderer against the Schedule "A". 

37.4. 
DRAWINGS:  

37.4.1. 
The tenderer shall submit 3 Sets of full dimensioned working drawings for each equipment offered 
together with detailed technical specifications thereof and illustrative descriptive, literature to enable full 
technical appreciation of the offer. The tenderer shall also submit drawings showing foundation details 
of equipment, layout of equipment and accessories and electrical wiring diagrams. 

37.4.2. 
Corrections of design and relevant drawings to obtain complete upto date and functionally efficient 
installation shall be the responsibility of the tenderer and any approval that may be given to detailed 
drawings furnished by the tenderer shall in no way relieve the tenderer of his responsibility for their 
correctness and execution of work in accordance with the specifications and requirements detailed in 
the tender. 

37.5. 
PAINTING:  All surfaces of steel and cast iron [except aluminium or Aluminium alloy] carried out under 
these specifications shall be properly painted with two coats of approved natural enamel paint over one 
coat of approved primer zinc chromate.   

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 384 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.6. 
ELECTRIC SUPPLY FOR EXECUTION OF CONTRACT: 

37.6.1. 
Electric supply at 415 / 240 Volts, AC, 3 Phase 50 Cycles will be made available for installation and 
testing of the lifts. The contractor shall provide all necessary connections, cables through conduit 
fittings, etc from the main switch in order to ensure a proper and suitable supply of electricity for the 
execution of works. 

37.6.2. 
The contractor shall be charged for electric energy consumed at the rates mentioned in Special 
Conditions of tender. 

37.6.3. 
The tenderer shall ensure that the power factor of his electrical load does not fall below 0.9 and shall 
include for necessary power factor improvement condensers in case the power factor is expected to fall 
below 0.9.  The contractor shall provide necessary PF meter as approved by the GE to keep a watch on 
the actual PF of his load. Penalty charges, if any, payable due to his account. The decision of the GE in 
this matter shall be final and binding. 

37.7. 
TEST INSTRUMENTS:  All equipment including the instruments for testing of lift shall be provided by 
the contractor. This will remain as his property after the tests are over and shall be taken away after 
successful completion of tests. 

37.8. 
INSTRUCTION BOOKS, SPARE PARTS, CATALOGUE 

37.8.1. 
Two sets of complete literature giving technical information of all component parts of the equipment. 

37.8.3. 
Manufacturers instruction book for the care maintenance and operation of the equipment. 

37.8.4. 
Complete literature giving technical information of all components/parts of the equipment offered. 

37.9. 
SCAFFOLDING:  The contractor shall make his own arrangements of scaffolding required for the 
erection of the lift which will be removed by the contractor after the completion of work.  

37.10. 
Two earthing points required in connection with the installation of lifts shall be provided by 
the contractor.  Rate deemed to be included in the rate quoted for the respective Item of Schedule “A” 
Part-XVI. 

37.11. 
DESIGN 
STANDARDS 
INTERCHANGEABILITY 
OF 
PARTS 
AND 
COMPLETENESS 
OF 
INSTALLATION: 

37.11.1. All materials plant equipment and the lift car to be incorporated in the lift system shall conform to 

highest standard and the latest practice in design and manufacture and shall be of robust construction 
liberally rated and capable of operation efficiently and economically under the stipulated service 
conditions. 

37.11.2. Cost of all elements of installation plant, equipment apparatus and accessories, fittings and fixtures, 

electric works of every nature of the outgoing terminals 400/440 volts, 3 phase switch fuse in machine 
room, beam supported anchor bolts, etc, which may not have been specifically mentioned in these 
specifications but which are required and notified by the GE for efficient operation and performance of 
the installation shall be deemed to be covered in the quoted rates. 

37.11.3.  SCOPE:  This section deals with technical requirements of lift installation, its components, safety 

devices various type of controls and methods of operation.    

37.12. 
PROTECTION AGAINST FIRE ACCIDENTS:  When the car unit rests on fully compressed buffer no 
part of the car or any equipment attached thereto shall strike any part of the pit or any part of the 
equipment located thereon. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 385 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.13. 
CAPACITY:  The passenger and goods lifts and their specification shall conform to relevant latest IS 
specifications. 

37.14. 
SPEED:  The speed of the lift should correspond to IS – 3534 and IS – 1860 suitable for lift and should 
be as shown in Appendix “A” and mentioned in the Schedule “A”. 

37.15. 
TRAVEL:  The lift should serve from ground floor to the number of upper floors as per Schedule “A”. 

37.16. 
GENERAL DETAILS FOR PROVISION OF LIFTS: 

37.16.1.  DRIVE MACHINERY:    

37.16.2. Electric Supply, Three Phase, 50 Hz, 415 Volts shall be made available. The entire lift equipment should 

be suitable for operation at + 10 % to – 20 % of the rated supply voltage.   

37.16.3. Gearless machine the gearless machine shall consist of a motor, traction sheave and break-drum or 

brake-disc completely aligned on a single shaft. Gearless machine shall be AC Gearless with VVVF drive.   

37.16.4.  SHEAVES:  Sheaves and pulleys shall be of hard alloy, cast iron, SG iron or steel and free from cracks, 

sand holes and others defects. They shall have machined rope grooves. The traction sheave shall be 
grooved to produce proper traction and shall be of sufficient dimension to provide for wear in the 
groove. The deflector sheave shall be grooved so as to provide a smooth bed for the rope. The 
deflector or secondary sheave assemblies where used shall be mounted in proper alignment with the 
traction sheave. Such deflector sheaves shall have groves larger than rope diameter as specified in 
clause 8 of IS – 14665 [Part – 4 – Sec 3]. The size of all the sheaves shall be in accordance with clause 
8.4 of IS – 146654 [Part – 4 – Sec 3]. Wherever necessary, suitable protective guards shall be provided.   

37.16.5.  SHAFT KEYS:  Shafts which supports sheaves, gears, coupling and other members which transmit 

torque shall be provided with tight fittings keys of sufficient strength and quality.   

37.16.6.  HAND WINDING WHEEL OR HANDLE:  At times of lift stopping due to any reasons, it shall be 

possible to move the lift car to the nearest landing manually. The manual operation shall be by means 
of a winding wheel or handle mounted on the end of the motor shaft. The up or down direction of the 
movement of the car should be clearly marked on the motor or at suitable location. A warning plate 
written in bold signal red colour advising the maintenance staff to switch off the mains supply before 
releasing the brake and operating the wheel is to be prominently displayed.   

37.16.7.  BEARINGS:  Bearings shall be either of the anti-friction metal sleeve type with oil reservoirs, self, 

lubrication, oil gauges, capped filler openings and drains of the ball roller or sintered type subject to oil 
flood lubrication or grease lubrication. Grease lubricated bearings shall have grease gun connections 
and drain plugs. The bearings and lubricant reservoirs shall be dust tight and shall incorporate effective 
seals to prevent leakage. The outer end of the bearings shall be closed with a removable oil tight plate. 
Thrust bearings shall be of the ball or roller type and shall have two sets of balls or rollers arranged to 
minimize backlash for efficient working.    

37.16.8. 
TYPE OF CONTROLS:   
 

37.16.8.1.   VARIABLE VOLTAGE VARIABLE FREQUENCY:  Incoming mains AC power is first rectified to DC 

and then inverted to provide controlled AC current to the elevator drive. Precision monitoring of 
motor speed and car direction, position and load enable the pulse width of the AC power supplied to 
the motor to be adjusted to ensure that elevator speed is maintained very accurately to an ideal 
profile. Thus in VVVF controls pulse width modulation control of AC motors has following advantages 
compared with the older servo controlled elevators: 

[a]  
Total control at all stages of the motion cycle. 

[b]  
A consistent fully adjustable smooth ride.  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 386 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[c]  
Better leveling accuracy under all conditions.  

[d]  
A higher power factor.  

[e]  
Lower starting currents.  

[f]  
Energy saving through reduced power consumption.   

37.16.9. 
INSTALLATION ASPECTS:   

  37.16.9.1. Installation in machine room: Lift machine room to accommodate the drive machinery, controller, etc. 

shall as far as possible be located on top of the lift shaft. The layout of equipment shall be such as to 
allow free movement of maintenance personnel inside. Machine room shall not be used for storage 
purpose.   

37.16.9.2. Ventilation of machine room: Machine room shall be provided with natural air and mechanical 

ventilation to avoid over heating of the electrical equipments and to ensure proper operation of the 
controller. Entry of dust etc. shall also be suitably prevented.   

37.16.9.3. Vibration, Isolation Vibration and isolation arrangement shall be provided to prevent transmission of 

vibration to the building and structure.   

37.16.10. 
General Illumination of Lift well Suitable light points shall be provided in the lift well at a spacing of 
not more than 10 meters in between, starting at the ground floor. All the points should be group 
controlled from the M/C room. The wiring shall be carried out in surface conduit. One socket outlet 
shall be provided in the shaft for use by maintenance personnel at a level slightly above the ground 
floor landing.   

37.17. 
GUIDE RAILS:  Guide rails shall be in accordance with Clause 3 of IS – 14665 [Part 4 – Sec 2]. Only 
machined guide rails shall be permitted for cars for passengers and hospital lifts. Formed sheet metal 
rails shall be used up to speeds of 1.75 mps for counter weight applications. In the case of goods lifts, 
un-machined guide rails shall be permitted for the counter weight for all speeds and for the cars only 
up to a speed of 0.05 m/sec. The guide rails shall be continuous throughout the entire travel and shall 
withstand without any deformation the action of safety gear with a fully loaded car. Generally the guide 
rails shall be supported by brackets secured to the hoist way frame at each floor. The rails shall be 
securely fastened to the brackets or other supports by approved heavy rail clamps. All necessary guide 
rails packing or additional supports shall be provided to prevent guide rail deflection and stresses 
exceeding the prescribed limits. The stresses on the guide rail due to the horizontal forces imposed on 
it during loading, unloading and running calculated without impact, shall not exceed 1100 KG/Sq.cm 
based upon the class of loading and the deflection shall not exceed 5mm. The guide rail brackets, their 
fastenings and supports shall be capable of resisting the horizontal forces mentioned above, with the 
total deflection at the point of support not in excess of 3mm.  

Guide rails shall extend from pit floor to the underside of concrete slabs or graphing at top of the lift 
well. They shall be erected in plumb and parallel with a maximum deviation of 3mm. All shimming 
required shall be of metal securely held in place. Jointing plates shall be so located as not to interfere 
with supporting clamps and brackets. The bolts shall be used with spring lock washers. The guide rail 
anchorage at pit floor must be made without puncturing the water proofing. The expansion joints in the 
guide rails shall be so designed as to avoid jerks in the lift car. Machined guide rails shall have finished 
surfaces which shall be coated with corrosion preventive compound which shall be maintained till the 
commissioning of the installation. Before the car is placed in operation, the preventive coating shall be 
removed and the guide rails thoroughly cleaned and smoothened.  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 387 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.18. 
LIFT CAR:  Car Frame The car frame shall be in accordance with clause – 4 of IS – 14665 [Part 4 – Sec 
3] made of sheet steel of rigid construction to withstand without permanent deformation the operation 
of safety gear. The car shall be so mounted on the frame that vibration and noise transmitted to the 
passengers inside is minimized.       

37.19. 
CAR PLATFORM:     

37.19.1. The car platform shall be of framed construction and designed on the basis of rated load evenly 

distributed. The dimensions shall conform to IS – 14665 [Part 1] unless otherwise specified. The 
flooring shall be smooth and of anti-skid surface. The flooring for goods lift shall be strong enough to 
take the rated load without any deformation or damage.   

37.19.2. A load plate along with overload alarm, giving the rated load and permissible maximum number of 

passengers should be fitted in each lift car in a conspicuous position.   

37.20. 
CAR BODY:  The car shall be enclosed on all sides by a metallic enclosure. The enclosure including the 
door shall withstand without deformation a thrust of 35kg applied normally at any point and as per IS – 
14665 [Part 4 / Sec 3]. Ventilation openings if specified shall be as per IS – 14665 [Part 4 / Sec 3]. 

37.21. 
CAR ROOF:  The roof of the car shall be solid type capable of supporting a weight of at least 140 kg 
and as per IS – 14665 [Part – 4 – Sec 3].    

37.22. 
CAR THRESHOLDS:  Car entrance shall be provided with metal thresholds having a grooved surface. 
Thresholds for lifts having horizontally sliding car doors or gates shall have machined or extruded guide 
grooves.   

37.23. 
TOE GUARD APRONS:  The toe guard apron of gauge not less than 1.6 mm sheet steel may be 
provided extending at least 15mm beyond entrance jambs at each side. The guards shall have a 
straight vertical face extending below the level of the finished car floor and not less than the depth of 
the leveling zone plus 7.5mm. The bottom of guard shall extend 700mm for lifts upto speed of 1.5 mps 
& 1000 mm for lifts above speed of 1.5 mps below vertical face and beveled at 15° angle from the 
vertical. It shall be seamed to car platform construction and be reinforced and braced.   

37.24. 
CLEARANCE:   The clearance between the top of the car and the soffit of the lift shaft roof, bottom of 
the car and the pit floor, the buffers, etc. and the clearness between the car and the lift well, between 
the car and the landing sill, between two lift cars in the same shaft etc, shall be provided as per IS – 
14665 [Part 1, 2 & 4].   

37.25. 
CAR APRON, LANDING THRESHOLDS AND SILLS:  An apron shall be fitted to the car platform 
such that no dangerous gap exists at any time when the landing door is opening. Thresholds and sill 
plates shall be provided at the landings also. The distance between landing sill and the sill on car 
platform shall not be more than 30mm.    

37.26. 
INTER – COMMUNICATION SYSTEM: 

37.26.1. Though para 8.4.3 of IS 147665 [Part 2 / Sec 1] recommends for provision of either an emergency 

signal or a telephone inside the car but as a general experience. It is seen that over a period of time 
these devices become inoperative due to one reasons or the other. Therefore, in order to have at least 
one device of communication functioning at all the times, as an alternative arrangement, provision of 
both i.e. telephone with minimum two connections – one at the operator’s room and other at guard 
room and the emergency signal with re-chargeable batteries as source of supply shall be made in the 
lift cars.   

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 388 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.26.2. The device used for emergency signals should incorporate a feature that gives immediate feedback to 

the car passengers that the device has worked prop0erly and the signal has been passed on to the 
intended agency. This shall be achieved by pressing of button form control room which shall give audio 
signal to the passengers in the car.    

37.26.3. Provision of group indicator panel in the control room shall be made to indicate working of lifts.   

37.26.4.  EMERGENCY POWER SUPPLY FOR LIFT CAR:  This shall include suitable secondary battery with 

trickle / boost charge arrangement and inverter power pack with necessary contactors for supplying the 
light fixtures in the lift car. The same battery shall also feed the alarm bell and communication 
equipment.  

 37.27. 
RATINGS AND INSTRUCTIONS:  Inside the lift car, the lift supplier shall also provide a stainless steel 
metallic plate indicating the rated load and detailed instructions for the passengers. This shall be 
mounted at a suitable place.  

37.28. 
LIFT CAR INTERIOR FINISH:  The side, rear and fascia panel shall be of scratch free stainless steel 
moon rock finish. The flooring shall be with 1.5mm thick PVC tiles for passenger lifts. The False ceiling 
in the lift car shall be crafted from stainless steel with LED lamps and fan.   

37.29. 
OPERATING PANEL INSIDE THE CAR:  The car operating panel shall be of metal, flush mounted 
and duly finished to match the car interior décor and shall contain all the devices as may be specified 
depending upon the type of operation required. In addition, separate illuminated panel for indication 
the floor and direction may be provided on the top or the door way. All switches shall be fade proof and 
the devices shall be of suitable quality. Each device and its operating position shall be legible fade proof 
and marked.  

37.30. 
CAR AND LANDING ENTRANCES:  The car and landing doors shall be of flush type sheet steel only 
for power operation. The flush type may further be of single sliding, centre opening or two speed 
construction. Power operated car and landing doors shall be so designed as not to injure any person 
during their closure by means of provision of a safety pressure switch which shall cause the doors to 
reopen on the slightest pressure. In case of power operated doors, it shall be possible on power failure, 
to open them from the car side. All the openings for passenger lifts shall be 2000 mm clear in height. 
For goods lift vertical by – parting doors or collapsible gates as specified shall be used. The door 
opening and closing shall be accomplished smoothly and quickly without undue noise, vibration and 
shock and their movements shall be cushioned and checked at both limits.   

37.31. 
CAR DOORS:  The car door shall be hung from the top MS fabricated track and means shall be 
provided to prevent the door from jumping off the track. The doors shall be provided with two point 
suspension sheave type hangers suitable for the type of door operation specified. The hangers shall be 
provided for vertical and lateral adjustment of car door. The sheaves shall move on a MS fabricated 
track so shaped as to permit free movement of sheaves with regard to vertical adjustment of sheave 
bracket or hosting.   The car door shall be centre opening horizontal sliding stainless steel scratch proof 
[moon rock finish] for office, residential & goods lift applications whereas telescopic horizontal sliding 
stainless scratch proof surface [moon rock finish] for hospitals.  

   

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 389 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.32. 
A potential cause of accidents could be the attempts made to open the landing door lock of lower floor 
in case the car stops away from floor level due to power failure. Since the car door can be opened in 
case of power failure so as to improve the ventilation and avoid claustrophobic situations etc. as 
outlined in IS – 14665 [Part 2 / Sec 1] para 10.9.1, there is a tendency among trapped passengers to 
make attempts to open any accessible landing door which can be opened by a electromechanical latch 
in the landing doors as the lock is accessible through open car doors. This attempt in panic may result 
in accidental fall into the lift pit. In order to ensure that the trapped passenger do not attempt opening 
the landing door, the electromechanically latch should be so designed that it is inaccessible or invisible 
to the passengers in the car.   

37.33. 
In order to avoid accidental closure of doors while boarding or alighting the car, a tamper proof infrared 
curtain covering almost the entire height of the door shall be provided in the lift doors.   

37.34. 
LANDING DOORS:  Each landing door shall be completed with locks, header, cills, frames, rims, 
hanger supports with cover plates, facia plates etc. The finished work shall be strong, rigid, and neat in 
appearance. Plan surfaces shall be smooth and free from warp or buckle. Moulded surfaces shall be 
clean out, straight and true. Fastenings shall be concealed from the face side of the material. Steel Sills 
shall be provided with a suitable nosing of approximately 25 mm depth on the shaft side.   The opening 
for the landing gates or doors shall not be wider than that of the lift car. In the case of bi-parting type 
steel doors, the locking of the two leafs locking of the doors should be positive.  

 37.35. 
CAR LANDING:   

37.35.1. All the lift car landings shall be well lit to an illumination level of 150 lux and shall be free from 

obstructions. The control for landing lights and the sign lights be tamper proof. Wherever standby 
power supply is available, these lights shall be connected to standby circuits also. 

37.35.2. For the purpose of identification, the lift number should be displayed outside the landing door, inside 

the car and in the machine room. The numbering may be used as reference for the purpose of routine / 
preventive maintenance for operating from machine rooms and reporting of any incidents etc.  

37.35.3.  INSTRUCTIONS:  Detailed instruction as specified for guidance of passengers shall be prominently 

displayed inside the car and outside the car at all landings. The Braille signage will be posted by the 
department outside lift lobby at all landings for the lift meant for barrier free requirement.   

37.35.4. It is seen generally, that though the instruction on DO’s and Don’ts, as per provision of the relevant IS, 

are displayed in lift cars but the same are either displayed in inconspicuous location, or are very small in 
size or are in one language only. To make these instructions serve the intended purpose and not a 
mere compliance of relevant IS clause; that these instructions should be displayed at a conspicuous 
location with larger and understandable script and should be written in Hindi, English and Regional 
Language [where official regional language is notified].    

37.36. 
LEVELLING:  All lift [s] shall be incorporated with suitable floor leveling devices. In case of lifts with 
automatic power operated doors and with AC VVVF controller a separate level device for automatic 
leveling with leveling accuracy of + 5 mm shall be incorporated.  

37.37. 
COUNTER WEIGHT:  The counter weight for lift car shall be in accordance with clause 6 of IS – 14665 
[Part 4 / Sec – 3] and shall be designed to balance the weight of empty lift car plus approximately 50 
per cent of the rated load. It shall consist of cast sections firmly secured in relative movement by at 
least two numbers steel tie rods having lock nuts/split pins at each end passing through each section 
and Housed in a rigid steel frame work. Cracked and broken sub weight shall not be accepted.   

37.38. 
GUIDE SHOES:  Types of Shoes shall be as follows: 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 390 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.38.1.  FOR LIFTS: 

[a]  
For speed up to 1.5 MPS, sliding guide shoes shall be used. Sliding guide shoes for car shall 
be always flexible and for counterweight solid guide shoes can be used up to 1.0 MPS.  

[b]  
For speed more than 1.5 MPS roller guide shall be used for car and counter weight.   

37.38.2. For good lifts solid shoes can be used.   

37.38.3.  FLEXIBLE TYPE / SOLID TYPE SLIDING GUIDE SHOES:  The car shall be provided with solid or 

spring loaded swiveling guide shoes with renewable liners, where the lift car speeds are up to and 
including 1 MPS. The cars with the speeds beyond 1 MPS shall be provided with spring loaded guide 
shoes with renewable liners or the guide shoes shall be of roller type.   

37.38.4.  ROLLER TYPE GUIDE SHOES:  Each roller type shoe shall be of an approved type consisting of rollers 

assembled on a substantial metal base and mounted as to provide continuous contact of all rollers with 
the corresponding guide rail surfaces under all conditions of load and operation. The rollers shall run on 
the three finished guide rail surface and shall operate quietly.   

37.38.5.  MOUNTING OF GUIDE SHOES:  Guide shoes shall be provided with adjustable mountings & shall be 

rigidly secured in accurate alignment at the top and bottom on each side of the car sling and counter 
weight frame construction. When oil buffers attached to the bottom of counter weight are used, 
additional guide shoe shall be provided on each side of the buffer frame. The design of guide shoes and 
car safety device shall be coordinated do as to ensure the provision an installation of equipment with 
clearance specified in clause 5.7 of this chapter.  

37.39. 
The general details of lifts are furnished in Appendix “A” & “B” of these tender documents and the 
contractor is required to submit his offer conforming to these details. 

37.40. 
MACHINE LOCATION:  The lift machine shall be placed directly above the hoist way upon machine 
room slab and supported on rolled steel joints which will in turn be built in and supported on walls so 
that load of machines will not be on the floor slab. Structural steel beams with bearing plates shall be 
provided for mounting the machine by the contractor.  Joints and bearing plates will be designed and 
provided by the contractor. In order to avoid overloading of the machine room of the side load walls 
bearing the tenderer shall furnish [along with his tender] a detailed layout drawing of the machine 
room along with intimation of total load to be supported separately by machine room slabs or side walls 
bearing indicating the breakdown details of various loads / forces due to the lift machinery. Cage 
passengers, counterweight impact effect, etc and any other information / factors to be taken into 
consideration for the design of the flooring etc.  Lifts shaft constructed is enclosed by 200mm thick 
brick walls on all sides [with in framed work of columns and beams.] 

37.41. 
SOUND REDUCTION:  The contractor shall provide necessary sound reducing materials preferably 
rubber pads of proper density to effectively isolate the machine from supporting beams and flooring as 
recommended in clause 6.11 of IS – 1860. 

37.42. 
MACHINE:  The machine shall be of the single worm gear traction type and shall include a motor 
electromagnetic brakes, steel worms bronze gear, steel sheave etc all completely mounted on a single 
base or bed plate. The worm shaft shall be provided with all bearing to take the end thrust and tapered 
roller bearings shall be provided for the sheave shaft to ensure alignment and bearing lift. The driving 
sheave shall be grooved to ensure sufficient traction and minimum rope wear. Adequate means of 
lubrication shall be provided for all bearings and worm gear. The machine shall be equipped with an 
arrangement or manual winding of the machine for testing purposes or for operation when the power 
supply fails. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 391 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.43. 
BRAKE:  The lift drive machinery shall be provided with an electro-magnetic brake or motor operated 
brake normally applied by means of springs in compression when the operating device is in off position. 
The brake shall be suitably curved over the brake drum or brake disc and provided with fire proof 
friction lining. The operation of brake shall be smooth, gradual and with minimum noise. The brake 
shall be designed to be of sufficient size and strength to stop and hold the car at rest with rated load. 
The brake shall be capable of operation automatically by the various safety devices, current failure and 
by the normal stopping of the car. The brake shall be released electrically. It shall also be possible to 
release the brake manually, such releases requiring the permanent application of manual force so as to 
move the lift car in short stops for this purpose suitable brake release equipment wherever necessary 
shall be supplied with each lift installation and the same shall be kept in safe custody to prevent 
misuse. The tenderer shall specify the make of rectifier and the arrangement of DC supply. 

 37.44. 
REVERSED PHASE RELAY:  A reverse phase relay shall be provided on the controller to protect the lift 
equipment against phase reversal, low voltage and phase failure. Switches / relays shall have suitable 
contacts to withstand wearing due to frequent make / break operations on the floor controller in the 
machine room and in the contacts height way.  

37.45. 
MOTOR:  The motor shall be suitable for AC variable control AC 415 Volts, 3 phase 50’ cycles, squirrel 
cage induction complete with switch reversible type particularly designed for lift services with high 
starting torque, low starting current and suitable for repeated start and stops. 

37.46. 
PROTECTION FOR MOTOR:  

37.46.1. Provision shall be made for overload protection of the motor. Protective relays shall be provided by the 

contractor to protect the lift equipment against phase reversal, low voltage and phase failure.  

37.46.2. The slow speed winding of this motor shall function automatically when the car is approaching a floor 

stop so as to provide a greater stopping accuracy. 

37.47. 
SHEAVES AND SUPPORTING BEAMS:  Deflector and overhead sheaves with their steel supporting 
beams shall be provided as needed for obtaining the proper lead of the ropes to the car and counter 
weights.  All sheaves shall be fixed by means of two sunk keys of sufficient strength and quality drums, 
sheaves and pulleys shall be of cast iron or steel.  They shall have machined rope grooves and suitable 
flanges.  The grooving of a drum deviator sheaves of pulley shall have radius larger than the radius of 
the rope but not less than that specified in IS 1860 of 1961 as amended vide IS – 1860 of 1980 and 
shall extend over one third of the circumference of the rope. 

37.48. 
BUFFERS:  Suitable heavy duty spring buffers shall be provided for car and counter weights as required 
under IS 1860 – 1980.Efficient automatic device shall be provided whereby power shall be out off from 
the motor before the car or balance weights lands on the buffers. 

37.49. 
COUNTER WEIGHT:  The counter weight shall consist of cast iron weights and contained in rigid steel 
frame and shall be equal to the weight of the elevator car plus approximately 40% to 50% of the 
capacity specified.  Suitable guide shoes shall be provided for structural steel frames. Specifications 
given in IS 1860 – 1980 shall be complied with. 

37.50. 
COUNTER WEIGHT GUARD:  Contractor shall provide expanded metal counter weight guard of 
required length at the bottom of the hoist way and at the place where car and counter weight meet. 

37.51. 
SUSPENSION ROPES:  The hoist ropes shall be of traction steel of suitable size, construction and 
number to ensure the proper operation of the elevator and shall give satisfactory wearing qualities 
Governor ropes shall be of steel.  All ropes shall consist of at least eight strand wound about a hamp 
core.  No car or counter weight ropes shall be of repaired or lengthened by splicing.  Fixing 
arrangements shall conform to IS – 1860. The rope shall be of Usha Martin or make conform to IS 
provisions. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 392 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.52. 
AUTOMATIC TERMINAL STOPS:  The elevator shall be equipped with an automatic stopping device, 
arrange to bring the car to a stop at the terminal landing, independent of the regular operating device 
in the car final limit switches operated by the cars to stop the car and prevent normal operation should 
travel beyond the zone of normal stopping device and shall be provided in the hoist way. 

37.53. 
ALARM HOOTER:  Battery operated emergency alarm hooter including wiring shall be provided and 
connected to a plainly marked push button in the car operating panel, the alarm hooter shall be located 
at the main floor landing.  This shall be clearly audible outside the lift way in order to obtain assistance 
in case of breakdown of failure between the floors. 

37.54. 
CAR AND CAR FRAME: 

37.54.1. The rated car platform measurements should be as given in IS – 3534, Table 2.  Contractor shall 

inspect the all existing building drawings and ensure that car platform measurements for all the lifts can 
be achieved. 

37.54.2. The lift car shall be insulated from frames to prevent vibration from the ropes and guide shoes being 

transmitted.  Internal and upward motion of the car shall be restrained by looking blocks but there shall 
not be metal to metal connection between the car and the frame.  The frame shall be of steel members 
properly and securely braced and shall be sufficiently rigid to withstand the operation of the safety gear 
without permanent deformation of the car frame.  At least four renewable guide shoes or guide shoes 
with renewable lining or sets of roller guides [depending upon the type of lift] shall be provided two at 
the top and two at the bottom of the car frame. 

37.54.3. The car shall be of Stainless Steel sheet. The thickness of the sheet used for construction should be 16 

guage. 

37.54.4. The panels shall be suitably stiffened.  The floor shall be sufficiently strong and rigid and covered with 

aluminium chequered plate of 3 mm thick. Flooring design to blend with remainder of the car, the roof 
shall be solid capable of supporting 68 kg equivalent to a man’s weight. Where the car leveling devices 
are used substantial aprons of sufficient depth shall be fitted to the car floor to ensure that no space is 
permitted between the threshold and the landing while the car is being leveled to a floor.  Threshold 
and oil plates shall also fit to the landing. 

37.54.5. At the entrance of each floor the gaps between lift car and landing position is required to be covered 

with architrave work matching with the existing surfaces to the entire satisfaction of Engineer – in – 
Charge. The unit rate quoted by the tenderer against respective item of Schedule “A” shall interalia be 
deemed to include for this work. 

37.54.6. The car shall be adequately ventilated and shall be provided with the following: 

[a] 
One 30 cm [12”] fan on the ceiling with proper grills. The fan shall be connected on electric 
mains independent of the mains supplying power to the lift machine. Ventilation opening shall 
be provided inside enclosure as per standard practice of the lift manufacturer. 

[b] 
Two 11 watts compact LED lighting fixture in recessed at top of car with all accessories 
complete and operated by switch in car panel including necessary wiring connected to electric 
outlet at centre of hoist way. 

37.55. 
SIGNALS:  

37.55.1. Illuminated direction indicators showing “UP/DOWN” directional movement of the car are to be fitted on 

ground floor and on each landing [at all upper floors]. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 393 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.55.2. Following items shall also be provided for the lift: 

[a] 
Floor position indicator in the car.  

[b] 
Car position indicator on ground floor. 

[c] 
Car position indicator at all landings of upper floor. 

[d] 
Annunciator [Call Registration Indicator] 

[e] 
Push button fitted at all landings either for calling lift or for activating the call indicator. 

[f]       
A bell with indicator board on the car for the purposes of registering the requirement of the 
car at a particular landing shall be provided. 

[g] 
Car call indicator in car to indicate to the attendant the lift landings from which calls are 
made. 

[h]     
One specification plate showing capacity speed and other installation details. 

[j] 
One operating panel. 

[K] 
A light point above 5cm every floor level along with electric bulb and switch for proper 
lighting of lift pit. 

37.56. 
CAR DOOR CONTACT:  An electric contact for the car door with infra red sensor shall be provided 
which will prevent elevator movement away from the landing unless the door is in the closed position. 

 37.57. 
HOIST WAY DOOR INTERLOCKS:  Each Hoist way door shall be equipped with a positive 
electromechanical interlock and auxiliary foot closing including infra red sensor so that the elevator can 
be operated only after the interlock circuit is established i.e. the car cannot be moved unless the 
landing door is in a fully closed position. 

37.58. 
GOVERNOR:  The car shall be provided with a governor operated safety gear.  The governor shall be 
placed where they cannot be struck by the lift car or counter weight in the vent of over run.  Governor 
for car safety gears shall be adjusted to activate the safety gears not less than 115 percent of rated 
speed and not more than the tripping speed. 

37.59. 
EMERGENCY SAFETY DEVICES: T he lift shall be provided with one or more safety devices, attached 
to the lift car frame and placed beneath the car. The safety devices shall be capable of stopping and 
sustaining the lift car with full rated load in the car at tripping speed. The safety gear shall operated to 
stop and sustain the lift car in the event of lift exceeding a predetermined maximum speed in the 
descending direction when a speed governor is fitted. Every safety gear shall operate positively and 
mechanically independent of any springs used in its construction. 

37.60. 
GUIDES: 

37.60.1. Car and counter weight guides shall be of rigid steel.  The sections shall be used continuous throughout 

the entire length and shall be provided with steel brackets or equivalent fixing of such design and 
spacing that the guide shall not deflect more than 5mm under normal operation. Guides shall be 
arranged to withstand the action of the safety gear when stopping a counter weight or fully loaded car.  
Guides shall be of such length that it shall not be possible for any of the car or counter weight shoes to 
run off the guides. 

37.60.2. Guide shoes shall be spring loaded and shall be a suitable alloy and shaped to fit in the guide.   

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 394 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.61. 
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL DOOR LOCKS:  Electrical and mechanical door locks shall be 
provided.  The landing door locks shall be such that the door cannot be operated unless the car is at 
the particular landing.  It shall also not be possible to move the car unless the car door is locked in the 
closed position. 

37.62. 
CAR DOOR:  The car door shall be automatic central opening type all as mentioned in Schedule “A”. 

37.63 
LANDING DOORS:  The landing door shall be of steel panel, central opening type suitable for manual 
operation.  When opened the door shall provide full width in entrance. 

37.64. 
ELECTRICAL WIRING AND APPARATUS: 

37.64.1. All necessary insulated wiring and conduit or tubing together with necessary fittings, metal boxes, 

through walls / floors shall be provided.  All electrical work in connection with installation of electric lifts 
shall be carried out in accordance with provisions of Indian Electricity Act, 1910 and IE Rules 1956 and 
shall also comply with the provisions of IS – 732, Code of practice for Electrical wiring and relating to 
fire insurance of buildings is applicable.   

37.64.2. All electric supply lines and apparatus in connection with lift installation shall be so installed, protected 

and maintained that there may be no danger to persons there from.  All metal casings or metallic 
coverings containing or protecting any supply lines of apparatus shall be sufficiently earthed. No bare 
conductor shall be used in any lift. 

37.64.3. All cables and other wiring in connection with lift installation shall be of suitable grade for the voltage at 

which these are intended to be worked and if metallic covering is used it shall be efficiently earthen. 
Suitable caution notice shall be fixed near every motor or other apparatus in which energy is used at a 
pressure exceeding 250 Volts.  Circuits which supply current to the motor shall not be included in any 
twin or multi core trailing cable used in connection with control and safety device. A trailing cable which 
incorporates conductors for the control circuits shall be separate and distinct from that which 
incorporated lighting and signaling circuits. 

37.64.4. Power wiring between the controller and main board and controller to various landings shall be done in 

heavy gauge conduit conforming to IE Rules 1956.  All cables used in lift installation shall conform to IS 
– 4209, Specification for lift cables, where installation of heavy gauge conduit presents difficulties, short 
length of flexible conduits may be permitted but contractor should specify places where flexible conduit 
is proposed to be used. The lengths of the cables shall be such that they are not subjected to strain due 
to movement of car from end to end. 

37.64.5. All electrical wires shall be FRLS multi thread copper cable with not less than 1.5 Sq.mm 

37.65. 
CONTROLLER UNIT: 

37.65.1. The controller unit with main circuit breaker shall be with adjustable over load release single phase 

preventer and phase reverse relays AC Transformer, Rectifier, DC Control relays contractors etc 
enclosed in a vermin proof sheet floor mounted cabinet of standard design. 

37.65.2. The controller shall be located in the machine room and shall be suitable for the control system and 

facilities required in case and landings as detailed in these specifications. 

37.65.3. All control wiring shall be suitably secured and conform to standard wiring practice. Ferrules of 

insulating material shall be fastened on all terminations with identification letters of numerals 
corresponding to the wiring diagram to be supplied by the contractor. 

37.65.4. An inspector’s change over switch [Fireman switch] shall be provided in the controller. Operation of the 

inspector’s change over switch shall make both the car and landing buttons in-operative and permit lift 
to be worked from the inspector switch in either direction from the machine room for purpose of test. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 395 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.66. 
DUAL OPERATION WITH ATTENDANT:  Provision shall be made for automatic operation as given 
below: 

[i] 
Without attendant. 

[ii] 
With Attendant:  For the use of the attendant the following additional equipment shall be 
added to the car operating panel: 

[a]  
Key operated switch for cutting in and out the additional requirement for “with 
Attendant” operation. 

[b] 
Emergency buttons. 

[c] 
Car call indicator. 

37.67. 
AUTOMATIC SELF LEVELLING DEVICE:  This device should be operated in slow speed automatically 
to bring the car door in level with the landing doors.   

37.68. 
CIVIL AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKS:  The tenderer shall include in his tender the cost of all civil 
and miscellaneous works as given below works including: 

[i] 
Scaffolding. 

[ii] 
Foundation of plant/machinery and equipment. 

[iii] 
Buffers [with buffer support channel] tees, machine beams, bearing plates, hoist way beams, 
stretchers and any other steel works as required. 

[iv] 
Cutting holes in walls, floors etc and demolition of hand rails/grills installed at the opening 
and making good to match the existing surface of walls, floors etc any other requirement to 
be modified to suit the lifts. 

[v] 
Supplying and fixing necessary bolts, nuts, etc of adequate size required for fixing brackets, 
etc in the walls etc of the lift shafts/pits and making good to match the existing surfaces of 
walls, etc. 

[vi] 
Supplying and fixing necessary ladder or steel rungs of adequate size and strength for access 
to inside the lift pits and making good the surfaces of walls, floors, etc of lift pits to match the 
existing surfaces. 

[vii] 
All miscellaneous works required for erection of lift. 

[viii] 
Conduit work from machine room to various floors for control system and indicator wiring 
system etc, power wiring between controller and main board and from controller to various 
landings. 

[ix] 
All temporary electrical wiring required during installation shall conform to relevant Act and 
Rules and full proof safety requirements. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 396 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.69. 
METHOD OF OPERATION:  

37.69.1. The operation of the elevator shall be single automatic push button which is automatic in operation by 

means of one button in the car for each landing level served and one button at each landing so 
arranged that if any car or landing button has been pressed, the pressure if any other car or landing 
operating button will have no effect on the operation of the car until the response to the first button 
has been completed.  After the car stops at landing in response to a car or landing calls the car will 
remain inoperative from the landing buttons for a predetermined interval to allow a car passenger to 
leave or landing passenger to enter and register his call. 

37.69.2. The elevator shall also have a system of operation by an attendant. All calls shall register on an 

Annunciator in the car.  The attendant will press corresponding floor button on the car operating panel 
and serve the call. 

37.70. 
CAR OPERATING PANEL:  The car operating panel shall be flush mounted in the car enclosure and 
shall contain the following: 

[a] 
A bank of buttons numbered to correspond to the various floors / landing served. 

[b] 
An emergency stop switch for stopping the car independent of the regular operating service. 

[c] 
An emergency alarm button connected to an alarm hooter provided by the contractor and 
located at the main floor landing outside or adjacent to the hoist way.  The alarm shall be 
operated through DC battery provided by contractor. 

[d] 
Light and fan control switches. 

[e] 
A key operated switch to operate elevator “Automatic without Attendant” and “With 
Attendant”. 

[f] 
The tenderer shall also provide a toggle or two button switch situated in a glass fronted box 
adjacent to the passenger lift at the entrance level which when put “ON” whether the car is in 
travel or not, when the doors will open, landing call points will become inoperative and the lift 
will be on car control only to serve a fire emergency when the switch is OFF, the lift will 
return to normal working. 

37.71. 
EARTHING:  Earth terminals and earth connections to the various equipment's and accessories forming 
part of the lift installation which normally carry electrical current and all metallic parts which are likely to 
be electrically charged shall all be earthen with suitable earth continuity conductor[s], all in conformity 
with IS – 1860 and as per IE Rules and Regulations and as per IS – 732.  However, earth connection 
with bare copper earth continuity conductor from the main switch provided in the machine room to the 
earth points outside [including provision of two electrical and earth connections beyond the main switch 
are existing in the machine room will be the responsibility of the contractor. 

37.72. 
LUBRICATION:  All bearings shall provide for adequate means for lubrication for easy access without 
having to disconnect the machine during normal maintenance. 

37.73. 
TRAILING CABLES:  The trailing cable shall have flame retarding and moisture resistant outer cover.  
They shall be flexible and flat and shall be suitably suspended to relieve strain in the individual 
conductors. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 397 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.74. 
LIFT ROPES: IS – 14665 [PART – 4 / SECTION 8]:  

37.74.1. Round strand steel wires ropes made from steel wire ropes having a tensile strength not less than 12.5 

tonnes / Sq.cm and of good flexibility shall be used for lift. Lubrications between the strands shall be 
achieved by providing impregnated hemp core. The lift ropes shall conform to IS – 14665 – [Part – 
4/Sec – 8] and the following factor of safety shall be adhered to. The minimum diameter of rope for 
cars and counter weight of passenger and goods lift shall be 8mm.   

37.74.2. Rope speed of passenger & goods lifts [m/s] Factor of safeties 0.5 or less or Exceeding 0.5 to 1.0 or 

Exceeding 1.0 to 2.0 or Exceeding 2.0 to 3.5 or Exceeding 3.5 as specified.   

37.74.3.  ROPE FASTENINGS:  The ends of lift ropes shall be properly secured to the car and counter weight 

hitch plates as the case may be with adjustable rope shackles having individual tapers babbit sockets, 
or any other suitable arrangement. Each lift rope shackle shall be fitted with a suitable shackle spring, 
seat washer, shackle nut & lock & shackle nut split pin.    

37.74.4.  GUARDS FOR LIFT ROPES:  Where lift ropes run round a sheave or sheaves on the car and / or 

counter weight of geared gearless machine suitable guards shall be provide injury to maintenance 
personnel.  

37.74.5.  NUMBER & SIZE OF ROPES : The contractor must indicate the number and size of lift ropes and 

governor ropes proposed to be used, their origin, type, ultimate strength and factor of safety. The 
contractor should furnish certificate of ropes from the rope manufacturers issued by competent 
authority.   

37.75. 
SAFETY EQUIPMENTS:  Every lift installation shall necessarily be provided with the following safety 
features:   

37.75.1. The safety gear shall be provided in accordance with IS – 14665 [Part – 4 / Sec – 4], each type of car 

safety shall be actuated by a speed governor.    

37.75.2.  GOVERNOR:  The car safety shall be operated by speed governor located overhead and driven by 

governor rope suitably connected to the car and mounted on its own pulleys. The rope shall be 
maintained in tension by means of weighted or spring loaded tension sheaves located in the pit. 
Governor shall be provided for lifts with a travel of more than 5.5 meters. The governor rope shall be 
not less than 6 mm in dia and shall be made of steel or phosphor bronze. These shall be in accordance 
with IS – 14665 [Part - 4 / Sec – 4]. Governor for car safety gears shall be adjusted to actuate the 
safety gear at the following speeds: 

[a]  
For rated speeds upto 1 m/s maximum governor tripping speed shall be either 140 percent of 
rated speed or 0.88 m/s, whichever is higher. For rated speed above 1 m/s maximum 
governor nor tripping speed shall be 115 per cent of the rated speed plus 0.25 m/s.  

[b]  
Minimum governor tripping speed shall be 115 per cent of the rated speed.   

37.75.3. The governor shall be of “V” groove wheel design and only wheel is stopped to actuate the car safety 

upon a pre-determined over speed downward without damaging the rope.          

37.75.4. The governor, rope and sheave shall be so located so as to minimize danger of accidental injury to the 

equipment.  

 37.75.5. The governor sheave and tension sheave shall be according to clause 2.3 and the sheave bearing shall 

be according to clause 2.6 above.   

37.75.6. The requirements for field tests on car safety and governor and for drop tests to sliding type car 

safeties shall be as specified in section IV of this specifications.   


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 398 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.76. 
TERMINAL LIMIT SWITCHES:    

37.76.1.  TERMINAL SWITCHES:  These shall stop the car automatically at terminal floors within the top and 

bottom permissible over travel. They shall act independently of the operating devices, the ultimate 
limits switches and the buffers. They shall be in accordance with clause 8 of IS – 14665 [part 3 –Sec 1].   

37.76.2. Terminal stopping devices located in shaft or in the car and operated by cams shall be fitted with rollers 

having a rubber or other approved composition to provide silent operation when actuated by the cam. 
When the lift car cross head Is 60cm from the nearest obstruction above it, no projection on the cart 
shall strike any part of the overhead structure.      

37.76.2. Lifts with speeds over 1.25 meters/ second shall have the normal terminal stopping device located on 

the car or on the guide rails or in the machine room. 12.5 Ultimate Terminal Switches   These shall be 
provided in accordance with the statutory requirements and standing practices. When provided these 
shall arrange to stop the car automatically within top and bottom clearances independently of the 
normal terminal switches but with the buffers operative. These shall be in accordance with clause 8 of 
IS – 14665 [Part – 3 / Sec – 1]. 12.6 Buffers – [IS 14665 [Part 4 / Sec 1] – 2001]   Buffers shall be oil 
resistant rubber pad type for speeds upto 0.25 mps and spring /oil type for speed up-to 1.5 mps and 
only oil type for speeds higher than 1.5 mps.   Buffers shall be suitable for installation in the space 
available. Buffer anchorage at pit floors shall be installed avoiding puncturing of water proofing.   Oil 
buffers of the car and counter weight shall be of the spring return type or of gravity type.    

37.76.3. The partial compression of spring return oil buffers when the car is in level with terminal landing will not 

be acceptable.  All buffers shall be tested at manufactures works and a copy of the test report shall be 
submitted. When the lift car rests on fully compressed buffers there shall be at least 60cms clearance 
between the lowest point in its car frame and any obstruction in the pit exclusive of buffers and their 
supports. Similarly when the lift cars cross head is 60 cm from the nearest obstruction above it, no 
projection on the car shall strike any part of the overhead structure. The contractor must indicate the 
name of buffer manufactures, buffer stroke & certified maximum loads.   

37.76.4.  DOOR LOCKS:  Electro mechanical door lock shall be provided for all the landing doors and they shall 

be such that the doors cannot open unless the car is at rest at the particular landing. It shall not be 
possible to move the car unless all the landing doors and the car door are closed and locked. This 
requirement however does not apply when the lift car is provided with automatic leveling devices and in 
such cases, it shall be permitted to move the car with both the doors open in the leveling zone for the 
purpose of leveling. All the locks and contacts shall conform to IS – 14665 [Part 1/Sec 6] shall be 
positive and pass the prescribed endurance and reliability test from a recognized testing laboratory. 
They shall be so located as to be inaccessible to un-authorized personnel. The electromechanical latch 
should be so designed that it is inaccessible or invisible to the passengers in the car.   

37.76.5.  OTHER SAFETIES:  Besides these safety devices mentioned above, motor operated electro-mechanical 

brake [Clause 1.6] counter-weight guards [Clause 8.1] alarm bell, emergency door lock release 
operating key and associated safety and other safety requirements shall also be included.   

37.77. 
TESTING OF INSTALLATION: 

37.77.1. Tests shall be carried out in accordance with IS – 4666. In particular, the following tests shall be carried 

out in the completed lift installation.  The necessary test weights and instruments shall be provided by 
the lift contractor during test and the electric power at the declared voltage [and frequency] required 
for adjusting the testing shall be supplied by the Department on payment at the rates mentioned in 
Special Conditions. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 399 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.77.2. Test to determine that the insulation resistance between power control lines and earth is not less than 

0.5 mega ohms when measured with a DC voltage of 500 Volts.  The test shall be with conductors so 
connected together as to ensure that all parts of every circuit are simultaneously tested. 

37.77.3. Test to determine that the earthing of all conduits switch casings and similar metal work are continuous 

and of low resistance. Tests shall be made from all terminal points of a substantial current to ensure 
that the resistance of earth path is sufficiently low to enable fuses or circuits operated under faulty 
conditions. 

37.77.3. Test to determine that the motor brake control equipment and door locking devices function correctly. 

37.77.4. Tests to determine that the lift car will attain rated speed. 

37.77.5. Test to determine that the lift car will raise and lower at rated load. 

37.77.6. Tests to determine that the safety gear will stop the lift car with rated load.  Over speed tests will be 

made with ropes attached and all electrical apparatus operative except the over speed switch on the 
governor two tests shall be carried out, one with rated load and the other with empty car and the 
safety gear shall be examined for signs of permanent distortion if any safety gear designed to stop the 
lift car on counter weights speed shall stop lift car with rated load or the counter weights speed shall 
stop lift car with rated load or the counter weight from governor tripping speed within the range of 
stopping distance. 

37.77.7. After the installation of each lift the contractor will have to get rated load test to determine whether the 

safety gear operates satisfactorily within the specified limits. The testing of lifts as per IS to be carried 
out in presence of representative of Accepting officer. The test report shall be signed by the contractor, 
Engineer-in-charge and representative of Accepting officer. 

37.77.8. The test results shall be filled up in the format given under Appendix “C” for all the lifts. 

37.78.  EMERGENCY RESCUE DEVICE:  The contractor shall provide an automatic emergency rescue device 

which shall bring the car trapped due to power failure to the nearest floor and both the car and landing 
doors will open for the passengers and goods to come out. In addition to automatic, manual winding 
arrangements may also be provided for rescue as well as for testing purposes.  

37.79. 
TAKING OVER:  The installation will be taken over only if the above mentioned acceptance of this 
effect is issued by the rep of Accepting Officer.  

37.80. 
GUARANTEE: 

37.80.1. The contractor shall submit a certificate to GE that over all specifications given in the tender and shall 

guarantee that materials and workmanship of the lift and connected equipment offered and installed by 
him under the contract are new and first class in every respect and he will make good any defects 
damages which are not attributed to normal wear and tear or misuses and will be  responsible for 
repairing and/or replacing any parts which are rendered defective during the maintenance 
period of 24 months from the certified date of completion by GE  .The contractor or his rep shall 
inspect the each lift every month after completion of the work and provide all lubrications during the 
defects liability period i.e  24 months from the certified date of completion by GE . 

37.80.2. He will produce test and inspection certificate of components incorporated in the lift of having passed 

necessary tests required under IS – 1860 and IS – 4666. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 400 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.81. 
LIFT OPERATIONS:     

37.81.1. Collective Selective Operation With / Without attendant:  Automatic operation by means of one button 

in the car for each landing level served and by up-and-down buttons at the landings, wherein all stops 
registered by the momentary actuation of the car made as defined under non-selective Automatic 
Operation but where in the stops registered by the momentary actuation of the landing buttons are 
made in the order in which the landings are reached in each direction of travel [irrespective of the 
sequence in which the buttons have been actuated]. With this type of operation, all ‘up’ landing calls 
are answered when the car is travelling in the up direction and all ‘down’ landing calls are answered 
when the car is travelling in the down direction, except in the case of the uppermost or lowermost calls 
which are answered as soon as they are reached in-respective of the direction of travel of the car.  It 
shall be arranged to co-ordinate both cars for efficient service and prevent them from answering the 
same calls by the provisions of only one set of landing cell button fixtures. It shall automatically assign 
each call to the car that will be in the best position to answer promptly. The system shall be so 
arranged that when the cars are idle, normally one car will be parked at the lower main landing with its 
doors closed or open and the other car shall be free car parked with the doors closed or open to the 
landing where it answered its last call, and shall be the one to attend to the nearest call.    

37.81.2. Each car shall always respond to call registered by its own car call buttons. When either car is parked 

out of service for any reasons the other car shall function as single car [simplex] selective collective. 
Besides the control system shall also be arranged for independent service from inside the car.   A by-
pass button [non-stop button] shall be provided inside the car to enable the attendant to by-pass any 
landing if the car is full or if otherwise so required.   The two lifts shall be arranged with or without 
attendant operation and shall function as described using single car selective-collective operation. When 
the transfer switch is in the attendant position the operation of the cars shall be identical with that 
described for automatic operations except that:   

 [a] 
Closing of doors and starting of cars shall be initiated by the car buttons only;  

[b]  Buzzers and directional lights in the car are operative, and  

[c]  
Landing by-pass shall be effective.  

The pressing of an up or down landing call shall illuminate appropriate direction indicator in the car 
panel, which is to answer that call and if the doors are open shall also sound buzzers as a signal to the 
attendant. If both cars are parked at the lower landing the above signals shall be given to the car which 
has been at the floor for longest time.   

 37.82. 
AUTOMATIC GROUP SUPERVISORY CONTROL:   

37.82.1. General operating principal the calls registered inside the car as well as the landings are answered in 

the sequence in which the floors are reached irrespective of the sequence in which the buttons have 
been pressed. Only one car will stop in response to any one landing call and will be the nearest car 
travelling in the corresponding direction of the call. White this car is stopping at this landing, the call 
will be automatically cancelled to prevent other cars stopping against the same call.          

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 401 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.82.2.  AUTOMATIC SELECTION OF TRAFFIC PROGRAM:  The group supervisory control continuously 

examines traffic conditions in the building and automatically puts into operation the program which can 
best cope with the demand at any particular time. This is fully automatic and requires no supervision or 
attendant. To suit the traffic demand in the building, suitable traffic programmers available:   

[a]  
Up Peak Program 

[b]  
Down Peak Program 

[c]  
Up Down Inter Floor Program and  

[d]  
Night Program    

[a]  
UP PEAK PROGRAM:  The group supervisory control responds to the increasing influx of 
passengers at the main landing in the morning hours, at the start of work, by automatically 
switching on the up peak program. The cars are dispatched from the main landing 
automatically at a pre-determined interval after the previous dispatched car. The ‘Leaves 
First’ signal is transferred instantaneously from the car dispatched to another car at the main 
landing. The car answers the registered calls in the natural sequence of the floors and returns 
directly to the main landing after last passenger has been discharged. At the main landing 
they are kept for a predetermined time for taking new passengers. However, a car starts its 
up travel the moment it becomes fully loaded, without waiting for the dispatch interval to 
lapse.  

[b]  
DOWN PEAK PROGRAM:  An intense traffic flow from the upper floors towards main 
landing will automatically switch on the down peak program. The cars, when fully loaded at 
upper floors, travel directly to the main landing and after discharging the passenger, 
immediately start up to answer further down calls, which ensures equal service to all floors. 

 [c]  
UP DOWN INTER FLOOR PROGRAM:  A steady traffic between main floor and upper floor, 
and between floor to floor causes automatic switching on of the inter floor Program. Specific 
cars are assigned to answer specific calls by traffic analyzer so that the calls are handled 
most efficiently. The cars are so well distributed that every call gets equal service with short 
waiting intervals.  As soon as the numbers of calls drop to occasional calls only such as at 
night, the cars get automatically parked in their assigned zones to give personalized service 
with minimum lift travel. If no calls are registered for some time the motor generator sets are 
automatically switched off.  

[d]  
NIGHT PROGRAM:  When the traffic ceases to occasional calls only, the supervisory control 
automatically switches over to Night Programmer. All cars remain parked at the main landing 
with doors closed, but are at all times ready for operation. One of the lifts has its ‘Leave first’ 
signal lighted. On pressing of call button at the main landing, the doors of this particular lift 
open and the passenger can travel with the lift. The same lift also responds to landing calls 
from above. The moment this car leaves the main landing the “Leave First” signal is 
transferred to a second lift. Further passengers entering main lobby will take this second lift. 
This second lift also responds to landing calls from above if one lift can no longer cope with 
the demand. After these lifts have answered their calls, the one reaching the main landing 
last will retain the “Leave first” signal. Thereby, the service is practically confined to one lift 
alone and motor generator sets of the remaining lifts remain switched off. If no calls are 
registered for some time, the meteor generator of the stand by lift also automatically be 
switched off. The motor generator will start up again, the moment the call is received. The 
number of lifts going into action is automatically regulated to just so many as are necessary 
to cope with occasional traffic surge. In case where more than 3 lifts installed in a bank, a 
better utilization of these lifts can be obtained by two additional programmers to deal with 
heavier traffic in each direction in difficult time. These are [i] Heavier “Up” Program [ii] 
Heavier “DOWN” Program]. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 402 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[i] 
HEAVIER “UP” PROGRAM:  This shall require the cars to make more stops in the 
up direction, necessitating more time for the up travel. For this purpose the 
automatic traffic analyzer shall dispatch cars from both terminal at automatically 
adjusted time intervals so that the cars are equally spaced, thus reducing 
passenger waiting interval [this program caters for the traffic which is likely to be in 
both directions but predominantly in the up direction e.g. immediately after the 
morning peak or after lunch.    

[ii] 
HEAVIER “DOWN” PROGRAM:  This shall require the cars to make more stops in 
the down direction and the dispatch times shall be adjusted accordingly by the 
traffic analyzer. If any of the cars in the group develops any defect it shall be 
automatically disconnected from the group control until it is rectified. In the event 
of failure of automatic dispatch system the lifts shall function by auxiliary means to 
avoid any disruption of service. Audio visual indication shall be provided to bring 
such failures to notice.   

37.82.3. The lifts shall be designed for attendant operation as described under single [simplex] selective 

collective operation car except as follow: 

[a] 
The indicating lights in car shall be operative to inform the attendant when to start loading a 
car at a terminal and when to leave the terminal.  

[b] 
Landing call by pass switch and car reversal switch and switches shall be effective and load 
weighing devices shall be inoperative.  

[c]  
Call above signal shall be illuminated whenever a call is registered at a landing above the car 
location indicating to attendant that car is to proceed upwards. When the highest call has 
been answered the light shall be extinguished indicating to the attendant that when the car is 
started it will proceed downward.  

37.83. 
CONTROLLING EQUIPMENT: 

37.83.1. The movement of the car shall be electrically controlled by means of a controller located in the machine 

room.   

37.83.2.  CONTROL CIRCUITS:  The control circuit shall be designed to the type of lift specified for safety 

operation. It shall not be possible to start the car unless all the car and landing doors are fully closed 
and landing doors locked. The circuit shall have and independent fuse protection for fault and over 
loads and be arranged so that earth fault or an open circuit shall not create unsafe condition. The 
circuit shall be so arranged that for the stoppage of the car at specified landing or for actuation of a 
contactor by emergency switches or operation of safety gears the system shall not depend upon the 
completion or maintenance of an electrical circuit to cut off power supply and apply the brakes. This 
requirement is not applicable to dynamic braking and speed control devices.   

37.83.3.  TERMINAL BOARDS:  All wiring for external control circuits shall be brought to a terminal board with 

means of identification of each wire. Metallic/plastic identification tags shall invariably be provided. All 
connections of wires to terminal boards shall be adequately clamped or screwed.    

37.84. 
AUXILIARY SWITCHES:    

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 403 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.84.1.  EMERGENCY STOP SWITCHES:   On top of the lift car an emergency stop switch shall be provided 

for use by maintenance personnel. Stop switch shall be provided in the machine room. Operation of 
these switches/ buttons shall cancel all the registered calls and landing calls for that particular lift.   

37.84.2.  MAINTENANCE SWITCH ON TOP OF THE CAR:  For purpose of inspection and maintenance, 

maintenance switch shall be provided on top of the car. The control circuitry shall be so arranged that 
in the event of the operation of this switch:  

 [a] 
The car speed shall be less than the rated speed not exceeding 0.85 meters/sec. 

[b] 
The car movement shall be possible only on the application of the continuous pressure on a 
button. It shall be so mounted to prevent any inadvertent operation. 

37.84.3.  FIREMAN SWITCH:  Fireman switch with glass to break for access shall be provided at ground or main 

floor for all the lifts. The operation of this switch shall isolate/or cancel all calls to all the lifts and the 
lifts will stop at the next nearest landing if travelling upward. The doors will not open at this landing 
and the lifts will start travelling to ground floor. If these were already travelling down, they will go 
straight to ground floor direct without stopping enroot.    

37.84.4.  INSPECTION FACILITY:  An Inspector’s change over switch and set of test buttons shall be provided 

in the controller. Operation of the Inspector’s change over switch shall make both the car and landing 
buttons inoperative and permit the lift to be worked in either direction from machine room for test 
purposes by pressing corresponding test buttons in the controller. It shall not however interfere with 
the emergency stop switches inside the car or on the top of the car.   

37.84.5.  SAFETY LINE INDICATORS:  If specified visual tell tale lights may be provided to monitor the 

conditions of faults in the safety line of the lift for easier fault finding. These indicators will remain lit 
when safety circuits are normal.  One indicator shall be provided for each safety on the controller. If 
any indicators fail to light up as the lift proceeds in its sequence of operation, there shall be visual 
indication of the safety line open circuit and also its location for easier fault finding.  

37.85. 
CONTROL WIRING:    

37.85.1.  WIRING IN MACHINE ROOM:  Power wiring between the controller and main board controller to 

various landings shall be done in heavy gauge conduit or metal duct & shall conform to I.E. Rules 1956 
and MES Schedule Part – I & Part – II, Specifications for Electrical Works.  

[a] 
Following general principles shall be followed in wiring.   

[i]  
Control cables carrying DC and power cable carrying AC shall not be run in the same 
conduit or metal duct and they shall be laid as per IE Rules.  

[ii]  
Metal duct with removable inspection cover shall be preferred.  

[iii]  In case of control cables also the harness shall be separate as far as feasible for 

separate functions and laid separately in suitably dimensioned metal duct or in a 
separate conduit such as the signaling, locking, lamp indication and safeties. Control 
cables for different voltages in the lift installation works should be laid as per IE Rules.  

 [b]  At least 5 percent with a minimum of 5 unconnected spare wires shall be available out 

of all the lines to be provided in the wiring harness from the midway junction box to 
the machine room. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 404 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

 [c]  
There shall be a master isolating switch Fuse associated with the controller heavy duty load 
break, quick make quick break type TP & N preferably interlocked with controller cabinet 
door. Isolator handle shall have provision for external locking in off position.   All relays shall 
be suitable for lift service and shall incorporate adequate contact wipe for reliable operation. 
Relays shall operate satisfactorily and Relays shall be operating 80 percent to 110 percent of 
their voltage. Main motor contactors shall be suitable for AC duty. Tenderer shall be required 
to furnish full details of make, type, applicable standard, voltage and current rating, duty 
class, type and routine tests done etc. on contactors and relays. Copies of type test 
certificates shall also be furnished by the successful tenderer. All cables shall be with copper 
conductors and flame retardant or PVC insulated of appropriate size. The cables feeding 
motor and in heavy current flow paths shall be so selected that the size matches the 
protecting fuses and will not result in more than 2 percent voltage drop from the main board 
to the terminals of motor. Control cables shall not be less than 0.5 sq.mm or equivalent if 
stranded; where installation of heavy gauge conduits present difficulties, short length of 
flexible conduits will be permitted but effective electrical continuity and earth bonding shall be 
ensured. Ferrules shall be slipped at the ends of all cables as per standard control wiring 
practice. All terminal blocks shall be suitably marked.  

37.85.2.  TRAILING CABLES:  A single trailing cable for lighting control and signal circuit is permitted, if all the 

conductors of this trailing cable are insulated for maximum voltage running through any one conductor 
of this cable. The lengths of the cables shall be adequate to prevent any strain due to movement of the 
car. All cables shall be properly tagged by metallic/plastic tags for identification. Trailing cables shall run 
from a junction box on the car to a junction box located in the shaft near midpoint of travel and from 
these junction boxes conductors shall be run to the various locations. Trailing cables exceeding 30 
meters in length shall run so that the strain on individual cable conductors will be reduced to a 
minimum and the cables are free from contact with the car counter-weight, shaft walls or other 
equipment. Trailing cables exceeding 30 meters in length shall have steel supporting fillers and shall be 
suspended directly by them without rubbing over other supports. Cables less that 30 meters in length 
shall have no-metallic fillers and shall be suspended by looping cables around supports of porcelain 
spools type or equivalent. 5 per cent of the total capacity subject to a minimum of 5 wires shall be 
available unutilized in the trailing cable everywhere suitably distributed between various functions.    

 37.85.3.  EARTHING:   Metal frames and all metal work of the lift controller frame etc. shall be earthed with 

double earth leads taken to the earth bar. Looping shall be permitted if such routing is feasible. All 
other individual metallic frame work of components etc. shall be loop earthed.   

 37.85.4.  MISCELLANEOUS:  Principle of segregation function wise shall be accepted as far as possible in the 

general arrangement of components. All terminal blocks shall be of 650 V grade.   

37.85.5.  CONTROLLER CASING:  The controller unit comprising of the main circuit breaker adjustable overload 

and phase reversal and phase failure protection all the circuit elements transformer, rectifier for D.C. 
control supply, inverter power pack, terminal blocks etc., shall be enclosed in an insect proof, sheet 
steel floor or wall mounted cabinet with hinged doors at front or at both front and rear. Proper warning 
boards and danger plates shall be provided on both sides of the controller casing. Sheet steel used for 
controller cabinet shall not be less than 18 gauge and shall be properly braced where necessary. 
Suitable gland plate shall be provided for cable entry. The battery for the charger unit shall be suitably 
placed in the machine room.  All sheet steel work shall be painted with two coats of synthetic enamel 
paint of suitable shade both inside and outside over two coats of zinc primer.  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 405 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.86. 
LIFT ROPE COMPENSATION:  The lift rope compensation for lift travel shall be provided for lift 
travels beyond 40m in all cases.   

37.87. 
AUTOMATIC RESCUE DEVICES [ARD]:  The Automatic Rescue Devices [ARD] meant for the purpose 
of bringing the lift car to the nearest landing doors, are being used selectively and is generally restricted 
to commercial buildings having heavy traffic. However, frequent power failures being the common 
phenomenon, the provision of ARD shall be made in all the lifts. The ARD shall have the following 
specifications:   

37.87.1. ARD shall move the elevator to the nearest landing in case of power failure during normal operation of 

elevator.  

37.87.2. ARD should monitor the normal power supply in the main controller and shall activate rescue operation 

within 10 seconds of normal power supply failure. It should bring the elevator to the nearest floor at a 
slower speed than the normal run. While proceeding to the nearest floor the elevator will detect the 
zone and stop. After the elevator has stopped, it automatically opens the doors and parks with door 
open. After the operation is completed by the ARD the elevator is automatically switched over to normal 
operation as soon as normal power supply resumes.  

37.87.3. In case the normal supply resume during ARD in operation the elevator will continue to run in ARD 

mode until it reaches the nearest landing and the doors are fully opened. If normal power supply 
resumes when the elevator is at the landing, it will automatically be switched to normal power 
operation.  

37.87.4. All the lift safeties shall remain active during the ARD mode of operation.   

37.87.5. The battery capacity should be adequate so as to operate the ARD at least seven times a day provided 

the duration between usages is at least 30 minutes. 

37.88. 
LIST OF INDIAN STANDARDS CONNECTED WITH LIFT & ESCALATOR INSTALLATIONS :   

Ser 
No. 
Description 
IS Number 

1 

Electric Traction Lifts  Part – 1 Guidelines for outline 
Dimensions of passenger, goods, service and hospital lifts 
IS 

IS – 14665 [Part – 1] 

2. 

Electric Traction Lifts  Part – 2 Code of Practice for 
Installation Operation and Maintenance, Section – 1 
Passenger and Goods Lifts, Section – 2 Service Lift    

IS – 14665  

[Part – 2 / Sec 1 & 2] 

3. 
Electric Traction Lifts  Part – 3 Safety Rules  Section – 1 
Passenger and Goods Lifts  Section – 2 Service Lifts 

IS – 14665  

[Part – 3 / Sec 1 & 2] 

4. 
Electric Traction Lifts  Part – 4 Components 

IS – 14665  

[Part – 4 / Sec 1 to 9] 

5. 
Electric Traction Lifts  Part – 5 Inspection Manual   
IS – 14665 [Part – 5] 

6. 
Code of Practice for Installation and Maintenance of 
Escalators 
IS – 4591 

7. 
Code of Practice for Installation and Maintenance of 
IS – 14671 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 406 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Hydraulic Lift   

8. 
Specifications for Hoist Way Door-Locks 
IS – 7754 

9 
Rules for the Design, Installation Testing and Operation of 
Lifts, Escalators and moving Parts   
IS – 1735 

 

37.89. 
TRAINING OF DEPARTMENTAL PERSONNEL:  Tenderer’s offer shall be deemed to include for 
necessary training for 2 week of departmental personnel for operation, trouble shooting, PLC system 
and maintenance of the lift. GE shall nominate the departmental personal for obtaining training of lifts. 

37.89A 
After completion of work, the entire lift installations shall be tested by contractor by 3 rd  party 
viz TUV/ LRS/ IRS as approved by GE in the presence of Engineer-in-Charge and the results of 
such test shall be recorded and signed by both parties. Quoted rates shall be inclusive of 
testing in accordance with the modern Engineering practice and MES SSR Part-I 
(specifications)  

37.90. 
COMPREHENSIVE MAINTENANCE OF LIFTS] [Electrically Operated Lifts] 

37.90.1.  SCOPE OF WORK:  The work under this part covers comprehensive maintenance of lifts by regularly 

and systematically examining / adjusting as required. All the parts, which warrant repair/replacement in 
the opinion of the GE, shall be repaired or replaced accordingly. The parts which will be replaced during 
currency of comprehensive maintenance contract shall be of the make / specifications provided 
originally by OEM. It is specifically brought out that this maintenance includes repair/replacement of 
each and every part of the lift except the replacement of the following:    

[a] 
 
Car enclosure except floor 
[b] 
Floor doors 
 
 
 
 

[c] 
 
Control panel                 
[d] 
3 Phase motor 

37.90.2. The necessary T & P required shall be arranged by the contractor and cost of the same shall be deemed 

to be included in the rates quoted. Required all the major/minor spares shall be deemed to be inclusive 
of quoted rates. (ii) Sufficient manpower (One Lift Mechanic and One Electrician) having sound 
knowlwdge and well experience of lifts shall be employed by the contractor. All the staff employed for 
maintenance shall be reported to AGE E/M office daily and will give day to day progress duly entered in 
the concerned registers. 

37.90.3. The cleanliness of car lift well and machine room shall be responsibility of the contractor.  Contractor or 

his representative shall ensure that door / window are properly kept closed avoiding any damage to 
glass panes during rainy/stormy days. He will also ensure to make good the glasses to window if 
broken/damaged, during the rainy/stormy days. Necessary protective arrangement for equipment of 
M/C room shall be made to avoid any damage. The contractor shall take all necessary measures / 
precautions to ensure that all the equipments are properly protected from intrusion of any foreign 
material/agents etc.   

37.90.4. Adequate arrangement shall be immediately made for dewatering the lift pit as and when water 

accumulates.     

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 407 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.90.5.  COMPLETION CERTIFICATE : Completion Certificate to the effect that the comprehensive 

maintenance was carried out shall be obtained from GE for final payment. 

37.90.6.  WORKMANSHIP:  The contractor shall be responsible for proper functioning of electrical and 

mechanical fittings of the lifts and the maintenance of the same in sound condition. The contractor shall 
stock sufficient parts / major assembly to ensure immediate repairs and maintaining the lift in working 
condition in shortest possible time to avoid inconvenience to users. The tenderer’s rate shall be deemed 
to include cost of such contingencies 

37.90.7.  GENERAL :  

37.90.7.1. Maintenance and supervision shall be done by certified trained men from OEM of lift for the safe 

operation of lifts. Contractors shall carry out fortnightly servicing including adjustment lubrication, repair 
or replacement of parts necessary.    In addition to fortnightly servicing, contractor’s senior mechanic or 
Foremen shall carry out the inspection as per maintenance Schedule and make necessary entries in the 
Proforma Nos. 1, 2, 3 & 4 given in Appendix “D” respectively as applicable kept in the switch room for 
this purpose. It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to maintain schedule book properly. 

37.90.7.2. The contractor shall obtain signature of Junior Engineer of the GE at MES office in token of satisfactory 

completion of defects. The contractor shall be available for 24 hours call back services for attending all 
types of complaints. However, the contractor shall engage additional manpower as per the job 
requirement without any extra cost and in case of repairs/emergencies.  Contractor shall promptly 
attend to and any complaint shall not be kept pending for more than 4 hours.  In case of 
delay in repair of the lifts for more than 24 hours but less than 10 [ten] days, the GE may at 
his absolute discretion impose penalty on the contractor a sum of Rs. 650.00 per day per 
lift or part thereof and Rs. 2500.00 per day per lift or part thereof after 10 [ten] days.  The 
decision of the GE as to whether a particular lift has been maintained or not on a particular 
day will be final and binding.   

37.90.7.3. The contractor shall be responsible for upkeep and maintenance of machine rooms and shall ensure 

that doors windows etc are properly working and the places are well lit up and kept clean. 

37.90.8.  DETAILS OF MAINTENANCE RENEWAL : 

37.90.8.1. The maintenance of lifts shall be carried out as per lift rules irrespective of whether the lift is in use or 

not. 

37.90.8.2.  The contractor will carry out fortnightly, monthly, quarterly and annual maintenance as per Performa 

Nos 1, 2, 3 & 4 respectively. In case the contractor fails to carry out the above maintenance, the 
following penalty per lift will be imposed: 

  
[a]    Not carrying out maintenance fortnightly     
 
: 
Rs. 600.00 

 
[b]    Not carrying out maintenance monthly        
 
: 
Rs. 1,200.00 

 
[c]   Not carrying out maintenance quarterly       
 
: 
Rs. 1,800.00 

              [d]    Not carrying out maintenance annually        
 
: 
Rs. 3,000.00 

37.90.8.3. Lifts are required by statutory regulations to be examined at intervals, as specified by the lift Act, by a 

competent person, who is required to report on a prescribed form.  Such reports shall normally be kept 
in a register. The provision of statutory report shall be deemed to be included and it shall be arranged 
by the tenderer at specified intervals. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 408 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.90.9.  MAINTENANCE OF LIFTS/ DETAILING OF TECHNICAL STAFF: 

37.90.9.1. The contractor shall employ sufficient staff for efficient maintenance of lifts who shall work round the 

clock. 

37.90.9.2. The complaints thus attended by the contractor by his accredited representative shall be recorded in 

proper log sheet as under and shall be submitted to Junior Engineer E/M daily for record. 

Date & Time when 

complaint lodged 
Block No & Lift No 
Nature of defect 
Date & time when 

defects rec t ified 

Initial of defects 

c o n cerned 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
37.90.10.  TESTING:  The contractor shall have the following tests to be carried out once in a year during the 

currency of contract at site in presence of the GE. The necessary test weights and instruments shall be 
provided by the Contractor.  

[a]    Test to determine that the insulation resistance between power and control lines and earth is 

not less than 9.5 mega ohms when measured with a DC voltage of  500 Volts. The test shall be 
carried out with the conductors so connected together as to ensure that all parts of every 
circuit and simultaneously tested. 

[b]   
Test to determine that the earthing of all conduit switch casing and similar metal work is 
continuous and of low resistance.  Tests should be made from all terminal points by means of a 
substantial current to ensure that the resistance of earth path is sufficiently low to enable fuses 
or circuits to operate under faulty conditions. 

[c]   
Test to determine that the motor brake, control equipment and door locking devices and limit 
switches function correctly Brake to be tested to check whether it can sustain car at rest with 
contact load plus 25% of contract load. 

[d]  
Test to determine that the safety gear stop the lift car with rated load. The over speed tests 
shall also be made with ropes attached and all electrical apparatus operation except the over 
speed switch on the Governor.  The stopping distance of the lift car is the actual slide as 
observed from the marking on the guides.  The safety gear of lift having an AC motor drive 
may be tested by manually tripping the governor where the speed attained by loaded 
descending lift car, with brake released is sufficient to operative to governor. 

[e]    Test to determine that the lift car raises and lowers at rated load.     

[f]    
Tests to determine that the lift car achieves the rated speed.  

 [g]    At the time of carrying out tests, it is the responsibility of the contractor to provide the required 

equipment. 

37.90.11.  MAINTENANCE, INSPECTION & TESTING OF LIFTS:  

37.90.11.1.  PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE:  The introduction of planned preventive maintenance system is for 

the purpose of improving the services offered to users. Through the implementation of such a system, 
monitoring   and effective control or routine maintenance   can be achieved.  By following   the  
planned  maintenance   system, weakness  can be highlighted so that  correction    may  be 
implemented    that  will  result  in improved   efficiencies   and  reduced  costs. The system  should  
not  be seen  as a magic  cure,  it  is a tool  to  be used  for  proper   management of  routine 
maintenance   together   with  pre-arrangement,    good  supervision   and proper  analysis  of call-
backs,  so that the  desired  targets  and  goals  can then  be  reached. All work involved   in planned 
maintenance is being prearranged   and distributed   to the supervisor who should complete the work 
systematically at the time of a scheduled visit to a unit. The work of the system generally divided into 
two following parts: 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 409 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[a]          ROUTINE EXAMINATION   [EVERY  VISIT ON  FORTNIGHTLY  BASIS]:  

[i]  
See the Users representatives. 

[ii] 
Post "Elevator under Service” Board. 

[iii] 
Observe door operation   [closing-opening-reopening]. 

[iv] 
Check Alarm Operation. 

[v] 
Check gear oil level, motor bearing oil level and governor shaft grease. 

[vi] 
Follow code system cycle. 

[vii] 
Check emergency light [battery operated]. 

[viii]      Make entry on log card of all work carried out.  

[ix]         
Obtain signatures of users or his representative.  

[x]          
Report materials required. 

[xi]         
Reports any items requiring attention outside the scope of routine examination. 

[b]          
CODE CYCLE:  Maintenance of lifts is to be carried out as per code cycle I F A B C G O H 
E F A J followed   by I A B C E F A GO H J I in retaken which is presently prevailing in other 
Government organisation. 

Ser No
Code No 
Contains 

1 
Code “A” 
Discretional work 

2 
Code “B” 
Hall button indicators, Cop Annunciator 

3 
Code “C” 
controller 

4 
Code “D” 
Driving  Mechanism 

5 
Code “E” 
Entrances,  Doors, Gates 

6 
Code “F” 
Locks, Door cam/Retiring   Cam 

7 
Code “G” 
Safety & Governor, Car & CWT, Shoes, Buffers, Cwt, Screen. 

8 
Code “H” 
Selector, Hoistway and car limit Switches Hoistway cleaning. 

9 
Code “I” 
Inspection switches, zoning circuits, intercom. 

10 
Code “J” 
Ropes [Main, Governing, Compensating, Selector Tape and 
Travelling Cables]. 

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 410 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.90.11.2. 
PERIODICAL EXAMINATION:  

37.90.11.2.1.  DEFINITION OF CODE:  

[a] 
CODE “A” [DISCRETIONAL   WORK]:  The examiner  is to  use his special  knowledge   on 
the  unit being serviced to do additional work  in maintaining  components   which  are not 
included  in other codes areas e.g. Lubrication of rails etc. This work period   is also to be 
used for completing any other work specified by maintenance supervisor or any pending work 
of other codes. 

[b] 
CODE “B” [HALL BUTTON INDICATORS, COP, ANNUNCIATORS]:  

[i] 
Check mechanical & electrical operation of push buttons, open and clean all the hall 
button boxes and check all connections, replace parts as necessary. 

[ii]     Open and clean all the hall position Indicator and car Position Indicator Boxes, tighten, 

all connections and replace parts as necessary. 

[iii]    Open and clean the car operating Annunciator panel boxes, check all connections   and 

replace parts as necessary. 

[iv] 
Check   car   lanterns, tell   tale   light   and   car direction    arrows. Check 
connections, also check the working of emergency light holder [230V] fixed in the car. 

[v] 
Overhaul car fan. 

[c] 
CODE “C” [CONTROLLER]:  

[i]      Clean as necessary, check alignment   of relays, switches, check and adjust overload 

relays [record the adjustment timing of overload in log card]. 

[ii] 
Check controller   fuses for correct rating and holders for tightness. Check relay leads, 
non-magnetic   [brass] guards, contacts and all connections. Adjust and replace parts 
as necessary. 

[iii]     Check the entire timed relay for correct timings and record. 

[iv] 
Check marking tags on terminal   blocks, relays, resistors condensers etc. replace tags 
as necessary. 

[d] 
CODE “D” [DRIVING MECHANISM]:  

[i] 
Brake - Open,  clean  and  lubricate   brake  mechanism,   check  linings  and correct  
mechanical  and electrical  operation   of brakes check brake drum  and parts for wear. 

[ii] 
Machine Observe backlash and end play [Thrusts play] for noise, adjust gland packing 
as necessary check, gear-oil condition and seal oil leakage. 

[iii] 
Check sheave grooves for wear and signs of rope slip. 

[iv] 
Lubricate all the machine bearings i.e.  Pedestal bearing, pillow block bearing, motor 
bearings etc., Car, Cwt, Deflector, Overhead & compensating sheaves. 

[v] 
Ensure bearings are tight in sheave. Check Rope Grooves for wear or rope markings.  
Lubricate all the sheave shaft bearings. 

[vi]   Motor/Generator: Check all connections,   brushes, for good contact and proper 

seating, lubricate all bearings and seal oil leakage, if any, clean commentator 
segments. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 411 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[e] 
CODE “E” [ENTRANCES, DOORS, GATES]: 

[i]        
On power operated   Doors: Clean and lubricate as necessary. Check door 
operator for proper mechanical and electrical function. Correct if necessary. Check 
hanger rollers, Car Door Switch, Track Buffers and Bottom shoes of doors. Door safety 
shoe & 'DO' Button. 

[ii] 
The collapsible car gate or manual operated door: Check track and hanger rollers.  
Check bottom shoes/ gibes and other pivot points.  Clean and lubricate   as necessary. 

[iii] 
On swing  doors: Clean doors,  check  and correct  door  closer  operation, clean closer  
and lubricate pivot point of closers, check and lubricate  to door  lines, check clearance  
of door  from  door brake and floor. 

[f] 
CODE “F” [LOCKS, DOOR CAM / RETIRING CAM]: 

[i] 
Clean and lubricate locks as required. 

[ii] 
Check and correct electrical   and mechanical   operation, replace parts as necessary 

[iii] 
Ensure lock and lock keeper fixing are secure. 

[iv]      
Ensure fixing of retiring cam/door spearhead cam. 

[v]       
Overhaul retiring cam and replace parts as necessary. 

[vi] 
Check unlocking device. 

[g] 
CODE “G” [SAFETY & GOVERNOR, CAR / CWT, SHOES, BUFFERS, CWT, SCREEN]: 

[i] 
Governor: Check mechanical functions and functions of associated electrical switches 
[i.e. S0S, OS etc.] 

[ii] 
Lubricate governor and tension pulley. 

[iii] 
Clean and check car guide shoes and safety blocks for correct guide Rail clearance. 

[iv] 
Check Guide fixing. 

[v] 
Check safety link arms and moving parts attached to car frame for lubrication and 
freedom of movement. 

[vi] 
Check Car enclosures, steady plates or rollers and locating blocks. 

[vii] Check Cwt, shoes and liners for wear. 

[viii]  Check oil in oil buffers, ensure fixing of buffers in the pit. 

[ix] 
Lubricate compensation / Indier pulleys and adjust window. 

[x] 
Check compensation chain, hitch bolts and hooks or shorten chains, if necessary. 

[xi]     Check Cwt screen. 

[h] 
CODE 
“H” [SELECTOR 
HOISTWAY & 
CAR LIMIT SWITCHES 
HOISTWAY 
CLEANING]: 

[i] 
Clean selector as necessary. Check alignment and air gap of relays. Check loads, 
contacts, connections on relays. Check marking tags on relays and terminal blocks and 
bar contacts. 

[ii]  
Check selector cable for damage and wear, check 'PH' contacts and all the brushes and 
bar contacts.  Check cross-head guide and gears for lubrication, wear and noise [do not 
over-lubricate]. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 412 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[iii] 
Check tolerance for all moving parts. 

[iv]    Check machine room and meter room main switches for proper contact, fuses and 

connections. 

[v] 
Clean hoistway. 

[vi]     Clean car hoistway limit switches, check function and connections. Lubricate, renew   

parts if necessary check and correct operation as necessary. Ensure fixing of switch 
operating cam. 

[i] 
CODE “I” [INSPECTION SWITCHES, ZONING CIRCUITS INTERCOM]:  Check the 
following operations: 

[i] 
TCI controls. 

[ii] 
Inspection lights on car top, bottom, hoist way and in the pit. 

[iii] 
Duplex circuit, zoning circuit.  

[iv] 
Fireman’s switch circuit 

[v] 
Special service key switch. 

[vi] 
Independent key switches.  

[vii] Intercommunication system. 

[j] 
CODE “J” [ROPES MAIN, GOVERNOR, COMPENSATING, SELECTOR TAPE AND 
TRAVELLING CABLES]:  

[i] 
Clean and lubricate ropes, if necessary. 

[ii] 
Observe wear as per method of inspection on ropes and report shortening, if 
necessary. 

[iii] 
Check selector tape for cracks, rust, tension and lubrication. 

[iv] 
Check compensation chain, hitch bolts and hooks for wear, damage and lubrication,   
shorten if necessary. 

[v]       
Ensure that the travelling cables are secured and check them for damage and 
necessary guards or rubber. 

[vi]      
Clean junction boxes, Car & Midway.  Check connection   and marking tags, 
replace tags if necessary. 

[vii]     
Annual equipment survey: Once every year, the service supervisor should 
thorough   survey each elevator falling within his jurisdiction. The survey is intended to 
reveal the actual condition   or the equipment   broadly broken down into following: 

[i]        
Housekeeping and lubrication 

[ii]       
Adjustments 

[viii] Based on the survey report, a work order should be prepared to carryout   necessary 

rehabilitation and overhauling of the equipment. After this has been done, the 
equipment comes in a working condition which is as good as when it was first 
commissioned. Any items  of work  which  are required  to be carried  out  by users, 
should  also be brought  out  to his attention   through  a written   report. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 413 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
[ix]     Safety Tests:   It has been  experience   of elevator   companies   that  elevator   safety  devices should   
be  examined   and  operated   at  regular   intervals   to  determine    whether    or  not  they  are working   
properly.  All elevators   should be scheduled   for an annual safety test. At this time, the complete   safety and its 
parts are to be checked for operation and any possible shortcomings are to be noted and maintained in 
accordance with relevant maintenance standards. In brief: 

[i]       Safety shall be checked annually. 

[ii] 
Safety Governors are normally set for Electrical tripping at 15%-20% over speed and at 30%-
40% over speed, the mechanical safety action must take place. 

[iii] 
Corrosion, if unchecked, will shorten the life of the ropes by inducing unnecessary friction and 
obtrusive action between the wires and strands. Ropes that are subjected to considerable moisture, 
steam, acid or other harmful   fumes should be lubricated   frequently and watched for any signs of 
corrosive action.  Every oil is not suitable as a rope lubricant.  Oil that contain ingredients which are 
harmful to wire ropes such as acid, alkalis etc. should not be used. Therefore,  only wire rope lubricant  
should  be used for  this  purpose.  It is compounded   especially  for  this  use and its properties   are 
such that  it penetrates   the  rope  and  does  not  materially   affect  the  traction   of  the  ropes.  Care 
should   be exercised  in applying  lubricants  to ropes that  as only a thin film  is necessary otherwise   
the lubricant will  run down  the  ropes and accumulate   on top  of the car and start gathering  lint and 
dust.  It is not advisable to pour the lubricant   on the ropes. The practice of using a small brush is 
satisfactory   for applying the lubricant on ropes. It disperses the lubricant through small holes or orifices 
allowing it to flow with the ropes. The car speed should   not be more than   100 FPM while   applying   
the lubricant.   Clean the ropes with a house broom or mini brush to remove any accumulated dirt and lint 
in valleys of ropes. The frequency   at which  lubricant   should  be applied  to elevator  wire  ropes, 
depends  entirely   upon  the  individual   installation,   the  outward   appearance of the  ropes  and the 
condition   of the  driving  sheave. Fine rust, coloured dust appearing in the valleys of the ropes is an 
indication   that the ropes need lubrication.   Ropes are shiny and feel dry to the touch shows that they 
must be lubricated. The appearance  of fine metal  fillings  in or about  the machine  bed-place,  on the 
floor  around  the  rope slots, under  the  drive  sheave are signs of wear  in the grooves  and the  ropes 
shall  be lubricated. 

[x]      Hoist rope tensioning:  It is very important that all ropes of the same set be under equal 
tension so that each rope can carry it’s fully share of the load. If the  rope set is out of balance  and there  
are ropes  that  do  not  pick-up  their  share  of the  load,  there  will  be excessive wear  on the sheave 
grooves over which  they pass. It has been found that this excess loosen ropes. The loosen ropes are also 
subjected to a development   of invisible wire breaks. Thus it is evident  that unequal rope loading 
produces   unsatisfactory    operation,    short  rope  life,  and  grooves  that  do  not  wear evenly. 
Unequal tension in new ropes is generally caused by improper   adjustment   at the shackles. All grooves 
must be checked to ensure that the ropes in the set, all seat to exactly the same depth so that the length 
of travel of all ropes will be the same. If grooves are not the same, unbalanced   load will exist between 
the ropes. The ropes of the set should be from the same reel. If not the tension differential   can be 
caused. 

37.90.11.3. 
SAFETY OF ELEVATORS:  

[a]           
Electrical  safety appliances for controlling the lifts 

[i] 
Phase reversal relay. 

[ii] 
Overload protection   of the motor.  

[iii] 
Single phase prevention. 

[iv] 
Mechanical Interlocking   of direction   Relays.  

[v]          
Governor Over speed Switch. 

[vi]         
Safety switches on Car. 

[vii]     Emergency Stop Switch on Car. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 414 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[viii] 
Hoistway Door Locks.  

[ix]          
Car door Lock. 

[x]           
Direction Limit Switches. 

[xi]          
Final Limit Switches. 

[xii]         
Safety shoe in car Door. 

[xiii]        
Main Fuse and controller Fuse 

[b] 
Mechanical Safety Appliances for controlling   the lifts: 

 
[i] 
Hoistway mechanical interlocks. 

[ii]           Car  &  Cwt, Buffer. 

[iii]          Over speed Safety. 

[aa] 
Instantaneous   Safety [Knurled]  

[bb] 
Flexible Guide Clamp 

[cc]         Wedge Clamp 

[c]           Over speed  protection: If the  elevator  is travelling   in the  down  direction  and  its speed exceeds 

the safety limit, then  a mechanical  safety device operates  and first the electric  power  to the motor   
is switched-off and  the  elevator   is stopped.  The elevator car remains stationery and is gripped to the 
elevator guide rails, thus, even if the hoist ropes are cut, the elevator car is prevented from a "free Fall" 
and an accident prevented. 

[d]         Toe guard Protection: If the car stops above the landing, there is a chance of a person falling in hoist 

way. To avoid this Toe guard, a Toe guard is provided below the car sill. The height of the Toe guard 
varies according to the speed. 

37.90.11.4. 
MAINTENANCE SCHEDULES: 

[a]      
FORTNIGHTLY   MAINTENANCE:  Each lift is required  to be visited  by designated  maintenance   
team and carry  out  specified   maintenance   activities   to  ensure  up keep of  lift  is user works  
condition. Details of maximum checks required to be pertained are enclosed as Appendix “D”. 

[b]            MONTHLY   MAINTENANCE:  Each lift  is required  to be visited  by designated  team  compressing 

skilled  mechanics  and supper team shall check all critical  components   which  are required  to be 
kept in controlled   condition. Details of check are listed required to be carried out are listed in Appendix 
“D”. A proper visit record is required to be maintained duly counter signed by supervisory staff. The 
supervisory staff shall randomly associate or counter check certain lifts and shall endorse their remark 
in monthly maintenance record of respective lift. 

[c]          QUARTERLY  MAINTENANCE:  Each  lift  is required   to  be provided   specified   maintenance   

every quarter  by designed  mechanic  details of maintenance   required  to be done and persons 
responsible is provided  in Appendix  “D”. 

[d]           ANNUAL  MAINTENANCE   SCHEDULE:  Certain  specified  maintenance   is required   to  be per 

formal on each lift to ensure longevity  and useful working  of lift details of maintenance   required  to 
be done and persons responsible  is provided  in Appendix  “D”. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 415 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
37.90.11.5. 
INSPECTION, 
PERIODICAL 
TESTING, 
AND 
CONFORMITY 
WITH 
STATUTORY 
REQUIREMENTS:  The lifts shall be inspected, periodically tested by the IEM's available a t  the 
office of DGNP [V]. 

[a]            CONFORMITY WITH LIFTS ACT AND RULES:  The installation shall  be generally carried out in 

conformity   with  lifts Act and Rules there under, wherever they  are in force. It is the responsibility of 
the GE of the  premises  where  the  lift  will  be installed,  to obtain  necessary permission from the 
authority before and after the erection of lifts and for subsequent  operation  of lifts [s], 

[b]          CONFORMITY WITH INDIAN  ELECTRICITY  ACT AND  RULES:  All electrical  work  in connection  

with installation of electric lifts  shall  be carried out  in accordance  with  the  provisions of the  Indian 
electricity  act, 2003 and the provisions  framed  there  under  as amended  from  time  to time,  and 
shall also comply with the other provisions of Part 8 'Building  Services, Section 2 Electrical and allied 
installation'. 

[c]            CONFORMITY WITH INDIAN STANDARDS:  All materials, fittings, appliances etc used in electrical 

installation shall conform to Indian Standard specifications wherever these exit. In case of materials for 
which Indian Standard specifications do not exist, the materials shall be approved by the competent 
authority. For detailed specification for lifts, reference shall be made to the accepted standards. 

[d]            CONFORMITY WITH FIRE REGULATIONS:  The installation shall be carried out in conformity with 

Part 4 “Fire and Life Safety” of NBC and local fire regulations and rules there under wherever they are 
in force. 

[e]           FACTOR OF SAFETY:  The minimum factor of safety for any part of the lift shall not be less than five.  

Higher factor of safety for various parts shall be applicable in accordance with accepted standards. 

[f]            TESTING OF LIFT:  The lifts shall pass the following tests when carried out quarterly at site in 

presence of authorized representative of the department and before it is put into normal service after 
major repair. 

[i]            Test to determine that  the  insulation resistance between power and control  lines and earth  

is not  loss than  0.5 mega-ohms  when  measured  with  a DC Voltage of 500 Volts. The test 
shall be carried out with the conductors so connected together as to ensure that all parts of 
every circuit are simultaneously tested. 

[ii] 
Test determine   that the earthing   of all conduit switch casing and similar metallic work is 
continuous   and of low resistance.  Test should be made from all terminal   points by means 
of substantial current to ensure that the resistance of earth path is sufficiently   low to enable 
fuses or contactors to operate under faulty    conditions. 

[iii]          Test to determine that motor brake control equipment and door locking device and limit 

switch functions correctly. Break to be tested to check whether   it can sustain a car at rest 
with contract load plus 25% of contract load. 

[iv]          Test to determine that the lift car raised and lowers at rated load.  

[v]           Test to determine that the life car achieves the rated speed. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 416 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[vi]          Test  to determine   that  the  safety  gear stop the  lift  car with  rated  load. The over- 

speed test shall also be made with ropes attached and all electrical   apparatus   operative 
except the over speed switch on the governor. The stopping  distance  at the  lift  car is the 
actual  slide as observes  from  the  marking  on the  guide.  The safety  gear of a lift  having 
an motor  device may be tested  by manually  tripping  the governor  where  the speed 
attained  by a loaded  descending  lift car with  break released.  It is sufficient to operate the 
governor. 

37.90.11.6.  TESTING AND COMMISSIONING PROCEDURE OF LIFTS:  This procedure covers the activities in 

preliminary tests and inspections, functional performance tests and the commissioning of newly 
completed installations and existing ones after major repairs. 

[a]          
The objective  of the  testing  and commissioning   test are: 

[i]  
To verify proper functioning of the equipment/system after installation. 

[ii]      To verify that the performance of the installed equipment/systems meet with the specified 

design intent through a series of tests and adjustments. 

[iii] 
To capture and record performance data of the whole installation as the baseline for future 
operation and maintenance. 

[b]           
List of tests and inspection to be carried out before installation: 

[ba]  
Site Inspections   prior to Delivery of Equipment 

[i]  
Access 

[ii]  
Barrier 

[iii]   
Lighting and power 

[iv]  
Storage Area 

[bb]  
Inspection of Major Materials/Equipment delivered to site 

[i]  
Check against approved lists 

[ii]  
Check for any abnormalities 

[bc]  
Lift Shaft and Lift Pit Inspection 

[i]  
Dimensions 

[ii]  
Finishes 

[iii] 
 Adequacy and accuracy of builder’s work provision 

[iv]  
Straightness of shaft 

[v]  
Adequacy of safety measures 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 417 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[bd]  
Machine Room Inspection 

[i]  
Dimensions 

[ii]  
Finishes 

[iii]  
Adequacy and accuracy of builder's work provisions  

[iv]  
Adequacy and accuracy of building services provisions  

[v]  
Adequacy of waterproofing/drainage provisions 

[vi]  
Adequacy of safety measures 

[be]  
Adequacy  and accuracy  of associated  Builder's  work  and building  services  provisions  
[e.g. door  opening, opening  on machine  room  floor,  hoisting  provisions,   power  supply  
and cabling  facilities, etc.] 

[bf]  
Other tests / inspections relating to setting-outs, safety and quality etc required before 
commencing installation works. 

[c]           Inspections to be carried out during installation 

[i]  
Guide rails and fixing inside lift shaft 

[ii]  
Guide shoes 

[iii]  
Suspension rope termination including compensation chain/rope 

[iv]  
Traction machine 

[v]  
Over speed governor 

[vi]  
Buffer 

[vii]  
Electrical installation in lift shaft 

[viii]   
Electrical installation in machine room 

[ix]  
Inspection required before energisation 

 

[d]          Inspection and functional performance tests to be carried out upon completion 

[i]  
Landing fixture 

[ii]  
Car door and landing doors 

[iii]  
Safety devices for doors 

[iv]  
Lift car 

[v]  
Control station in car 

[vi]  
Car door operation 

[vii]  
Safety gear and over speed governor 

[viii]  
Ascending car protection   means/speed   reducing element 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 418 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[ix]  
Automatic   control system 

[x]  
Installations   inside machine room 

[xi]  
Motor 

[xii]  
Lift shaft and pit  

[xiii]  
Counterweight [xiv] Riding quality 

[xv]  
Hydraulic system [for hydraulic lift only]  

[xvi]  
Automatic rescue device 

[xvii]  
Communication system 

[e] 
Statutory Tests as stipulated.  

[f] 
COMMISSIONING:  The  places  where   lift  inspections   by virtue   of  lift   rules/acts   of  the  
stated  are located/posted,  the  commissioning   of lift  under  the  defence  premises  shall be under  
take by the  such agencies. However where such agencies are not placed, the commissioning of lift 
shall be undertake by IEM posted with DGNP [V] 

[g]          Certification of Test and Examination for Lift is enclosed as Table – 1.  

Appendix "A"  

DATA SHEET FOR THE PROVISION OF PASSENGER LIFTS 

Ser

No 
Nomenclature 
Type of Lift : Passenger Lift 
Remark

s 

1. 
Type of Lifts 
Passenger elevator 
 

2. 
No. of Lifts required 
As per Schedule 
 

3. 
Load 
As per IS 
 

4. 
Speed  
1.5 metres/Sec 
 

5. 
Travel 
Rise 3.35 metre approximately from floor to floor   
 

6. 
Serving 
As per Schedule  
 

7. 
Entrance 
One entrance on the same side 
 

8. 
No. of the floors served 
As per Schedule 
 

9. 
Method of control 
Electric motor with AC VVVF control with leveling.  
 

10. 
Operations 
Automatic operation control with or without 
attendant.   

 

11. 
Position of machine room 
As existing on ground 
 

12. 
Size of lift well 
As per Drawing 
 

13. 
Position of counter weight 
As suitable 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 419 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

14. 
Size of platform 
As per IS and shown on drawings. 
 

15. 
Construction design of car bodies 
As per Schedule “A” 
 

16. 
Car light 
Recessed LED fittings – 1 No 
 

17. 
Car entrance: 
 
 

 
[a]  Size and type of doors 
As per ISI – 3534 of 1976. 
 

 
[b]  Door operation 
Automatic with door drive operation and electronic 
door protection device 

 

18. 

Signal 

 
 

 
[a]   Call indication 
Position indicator with Arrow in all floors. 
 

 
[b]   Position indication 
Car position indicator with Arrow in cars. 
 

 
[c]   Alarm bell and emergency light    
Battery operated alarm bell and emergency light at 
12 V DC supply Ground Floor landing and in car. 

 

19. 
Power Supply 
415 V, 3 phase, 50 HZ AC. 
 

20 
Whether neutral wire available for 
control circuit. 

Yes required. 
 

21. 
Lighting 
230V, 50HZ AC. Bulk head fittings 
 

22. 
Whether  subject to lift act rules 
Yes as per lift act rules. 
 

23. 
Additional items if required. 
As brought out in Schedule ‘A’ and Particular 
Specifications. 

 

24. 
Whether booklet giving complete 
details of maintenance schedule and 
circuit diagram required or not. 

Yes complete details are required for maintenance. 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 420 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Appendix "B"  

Refer Para – 37.3.2. of Particular Specifications, contractor shall furnish the following information in respect of 
each type of lifts offered by him in separate sheets: 

[A] 
Guaranteed Performance:  

[i] 
Contracts 
 
[a] 
Persons  
:  

 
 
 
 
[b] 
Weight  
: 

 [ii] 
Speed of Operation ____________ metres per second. 

 
[iii] 
Type of Control  
 
 
 
: 

[iv] 
Type of Doors and Size of Car 
 
 
: 

[B] 
Hoisting Wire Ropes:  

[i] 
Makers name 
 
 
 
 
:  
 

[ii] 
Circumference of rope  
 
 
:  
 

[iii] 
Total length provided 
 
 
 
: 
 

[iv] 
Number of strands of the rope  
 
: 
 

[v] 
Number and size of wire in each strand  
: 

[vi] 
Lay of Rope 
 
 
 
 
: 

[vii] 
Diameter of sheave at bottom of grove  
: 

[C] 
Lift Car:  

[i] 
Type of Construction 
: 

[ii] 
Internal Dimensions 
: 

[iii] 
Total Weight 
: 

[iv] 
Lift Well Clearance 
: 

[v] 
Car Travel 
: 

[vi] 
Car Services 
: 

[vii] 
Car Ventilation 
: 

[viii] 
Car Lighting Device 
: 

[D] 
Counter Balance / Buffers / Guide:  

[i] 
Type and weight of counter balance 
: 

[ii] 
Type and weight of guides and fixing 
: 

[iii] 
Make of type of buffers 
: 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 421 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
[E] 
Gearing:  

[i] 
Makers Name 
: 

[ii] 
Speed reduction 
: 

[iii] 
Method of lubrication 
:  

[F] 
Brakes  

[i] 
Type and make of brakes   
: 

[ii] 
Output 
:  

[iii] 
Time rating  

[G] 
Maker’s Type and Other Details for  

[i] 
Control panel 
: 

[ii] 
Main isolating switch                 
: 

[iii] 
Emergency signal                      
: 

[iv] 
Motor resistance                        
: 

[v] 
Terminal stopping devices           
: 

[vi] 
Trailing load                              
: 

[vii] 
Automatic electro mechanical locks  
: 

[viii] 
Automatic electro mechanical locks  
: 

[ix] 
Automatic leveling                       
: 

 

[H] 
Type of Landing Gates:  

 

[J] 
Any Other Information / Special Features Requirement to be Done by MES 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 422 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Appendix "C"  

ACCEPTANCE TEST INSPECTION REPORT ON ____________ 

 

Particulars of the Passenger / Goods Lift 
 
: 
____________ KG / ___________ KGs 
Installed at 
 
 
 
 
: 

INSTALLED MACHINERY  

[a] 
AC DRIVING MOTOR OF MACHINE: 

Serial No 
 
: 

Sales No 
 
: 

Type [Frame]   
: 

Voltage  
 
: 

Amps   
 
: 

KW/HP  
 
: 

Phase / HZ  
 
: 

House   
 
: 

Insulation class  
: 

RPM  
 
 
: 

[b] 
REDUCTION GEAR 

Serial No 
 
: 

Sales No 
 
: 

Type  
 
 
: 

 [c] 
CONTROLLER 

Serial No 
 
: 

Sales No 
 
: 

 Type   
 
: 

Volt        
 
: 

Phase     
 
: 

Wires   
 
: 

Cycles    
 
: 

RPM  
 
 
: 

[d] 
SAFETY GOVERNOR0 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 423 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Serial No. 
 
: 

Sales No. 
 
: 

Type  
 
 
:  

Car Speed     
 
:  

Tripping speed  
: 

TEST REPORT 

INSULATION RESISTANCE 

 
Class 10  
AC Motor [In Mega Ohms]
Controller [In Mega Ohms]

L 1 to Earth  
 
 
 

E2 to Earth 
 
 
 

E3 to Earth 
 
 
 

L 1 to L 2 
 
 
 

L 2 to L 3 
 
 
 

L 3 to L 1 
 
 
 

 

Earthing: Please refer relevant Para of Particular Specifications: All equipment's motor, controller, etc are found to 
be connected to earth point terminated at machine room.  Earthing of all wiring at conduits / troughs etc. is 
continuous. 

Please refer relevant Para of Particular Specifications: Tested and found that the motor, brake, control equipment, 
door looking devices and limiting switches are found working correctly. 

SPEED TEST [Please refer relevant Para of Particular Specifications] 

Ser No
Load in Car 

[in KG]  

Tachometer Reading  

[in MPH]  

Divided by 60 

[in MPS]  

Speed  
Remarks  

1 
Empty Car [UP] 
 
 
 
 
2 
Empty Car [DN] 
 
 
 
 
3 
Balance load [UP] 
 
 
 
 
4 
Balance load [DN] 
 
 
 
 
5 
Full load [UP] 
 
 
 
 
6 
Full load [DN] 
 
 
 
 
 

AC Motor 
 
 
 
 
 
Up 
 
 
Down 

Empty Car Running Current  

Full Load Running Current 

Please refer relevant Para of Particular Specifications on safety gear list. 

[a] 
Tested and found that the safety gear stops the lift car with rated load. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 424 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
[b] 
Tested the safety gear with rated load and also empty car and found that there is no permanent 
distortion. 

[c] 
Checked and found the safety gear stops the lift car with the rated load within the range of stopping 
distance. 

[d] 
Also checked that the electrical contact switch of the safety gear operates correctly. 

Brake was tested and found that they sustained the car at rest with contract load + 25% of contract load. 

Leveling accuracy found correct at full load and 25% overload as per IS – 4666 Para 24.1 

Manufacturer’s test certificates verified and copies are held with the AGE and GE. 

1. 
Machine [AC Motor] 
 

2. 
Controller 
 
 

3. 
Governor 

4. 
13 mm dia hoist rope 
 

5. 
Gear Box 

We have examined the elevator installation furnished and completed in the above building in terms of our 
contract with you and hereby accept the same. All the tests are found to be satisfactory. The lift is recommended 
to put into operation for usage effective from ___________. [Date shall be mentioned as applicable] 

APPENDIX "D" 
COMPREHENSIVE MAINTENANCE OF LIFT 

PROFORMA No. 1 

FORTNIGHTLY MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS 

Ser 

No 
Items 
Checked 

by 
Countersigned

1 
Check that lift stops in down ward direction properly with 25% overload 
with operation of the “Emergency” stop 
M 
 

2 
Check that leveling is within limit K = +/-  75mm for single speed lifts  
SM 
SM 

3 
Check and lubricate by grease cup or top up oil on sleeve type bearing 
on: 
SM 
 

 

[a]   
 Motor Shaft 
[b]    
Deflector sheave shaft 
[c]    
Governor Pulley  

 
 

4 
Check and lubricate sleeve bearing of governor tensioning pulley at the 
pit 
SM 
 

SM:  
Senior Mechanic [HS I/II] 

Signature of the Contractor                                             
 
   
Testing Officer 

Dated: 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 425 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

PROFORMA No. 2 

MONTHLY MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS 

Ser 

No 
Items 
Checked 

by 
Countersigned

 
CONTROLLER  
 
 
1 
Clean contacts and shields with carbon tetra chloride [CC 11] 
SM 
 
2 
Move relay armature by hand for free movement and see that contacts 
are aligned. 

SM 
 

3 
Replace Carbon contacts if worn out 
SM 
 
4 
Check flexible leads to relays 
SM 
 
5 
Check fuses of controller and mains 
SM 
 
6 
Break  oil in dash pots 
SM 
 
 
MOTOR GENERATOR AND/ OR D.C. MOTOR 
 
 
7 
Check and adjust carbon brushes sparing pressure commutation resist 
brushes

SM 
 

8 
Grease Bearings                                                 
SM 
 
 
AC MOTOR 
 
 
9 
Lubricate bearings 
SM 
 
10 
Clean ventilation passages 
SM 
 
 
GEAR BOX 
 
 
11 
Inspect for tray noises 
SM 
FM 
12 
Check axial play of worn out shaft 
SM 
S/FM 
13 
Lubricate bearing and top up oil in gear box   
SM 
 
 
BRAKE 
 
 
14 
Clean if oily and trace source of oil leakage 
SM 
 
15 
Adjust clearance between shoes and drum 
SM 
 
 
SELECTOR 
 
 
16 
Clean cont acts 
SM 
 
17 
Adjust for proper leveling 
SM 
 
18 
Check tape safety switch 
SM 
 
19 
Lubricate shaft bearings 
SM 
 
20 
Check performance without load and with full load 
SM 
 
 
GOVERNOR 
 
 
21 
Lubricate bearing 
SM 
 
22 
Check that the levers work smoothly 
SM 
 
23
Check that electrical contact opens before the rope gets locked
SM
 
ROPES 
 
 
24 
Check condition of hoist ropes and Governor ropes 
SM 
 
25 
Check black rope safety switch 
SM 
 
26 
Lubricate rope if too dry 
SM 
 
27 
Check the dia of rope in mm 
M 
 
 
HOIST WAY 
 
 
28 
Lubricate guides and guide shoes 
SM 
 
29 
Check that buffers are in proper position and measure and record counter 
weight buffer cleans with car at the top. 

SM 
 

 
RETIRING CAR AND LOCKS 
 
 
30 
Check operation of car and lock from the top at each landing. Check that 
retiring car solenoid is not getting overheated and that movement of car 
is smooth. 

SM 
 

31 
Check that all locks are functioning 
 properly 
mechanically 
and 
electrically after opening the cover. Check all set screws and springs and 
replace if necessary. The lever should lock the brake properly. 

SM 
 

32 
Check that the retiring car does not touch the lock roller at the landing 
which is being passed 

SM 
 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 426 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

33 
Check that the car door switch operators properly. 
SM 
 
34 
Check car stop controls and emergency stop 
SM 
 
35 
Check door closer safety, clean and adjust, if necessary 
SM 
 
36 
Lubricate top track and door motor and linkage. 
SM 
 
37 
Check that landing doors can be opened by emergency keys. 
SM 
 
 

Note:  If the ropes dia is reduced by 0.8 mm, the contractor will have to replace complete set of ropes and the 
same will be measured and paid separately by GE. The complete set of ropes shall be from same manufacturer 
and of same material grade, construction and diameter and preferably cut from same reel. 

 

Signature of the Contractor                                          
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Testing Officer 

Dated: 

PROFORMA No. 3 

QUARTERLY MAINTENANCE OPERATION 

Ser 

No 
Items 
Checked 

by 
Countersigned

 
MACHINE ROOM 
 
 
1 
Check and adjust overload relay and phase failure relay 
M 
 
2 
Check power wiring termination in switch, motor, controller and power 
switching relays. 

S/FM 
 

3 
Check commutator 
SM 
 
4 
Check lubrication of all equipments 
M 
 
 
HOIST WAY 
 
 
5 
Check rope fastening at the car and counter 
SM 
 
6 
Check guide clamps 
SM 
 
7 
Check upper and lower limit  switches for proper connection after 
physical inspection, get the lift to over travel by holding from the 
controller and see that the switches operate properly 

SM 
 

8 
Check guide clamps and adjust 
SM 
 
9 
Check condition of traveling cable and termination at junction boxes.   
M/SM 
 
 

Signature of the Contractor                                             
 
   
  Testing Officer 

PROFORMA No. 4 

ANNUAL MAINTENANCE OPERATION 

Ser 

No 
Items 
Checked 

by 
Countersigned

1 
Inspect the car frame for bends or cracks  
S/FM 
 
2 
Check insulation power circuit 
M 
 
[a]  
Incoming cable
 
[b]   
Switch and feed up to controller  
 
 
 
[c]   
Between difference power relays 
 
 
 
[d]  
Power core in the traveling cables 
 
 
 
[e]   
Motor 
 
 
3 
Check operation of the car over speed safety gear by having the levers 
manually and see that the safety locks up properly 

SM 
 

4 
Check that sheaves are tight on the shaft. Also check with sounding for 
SM 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 427 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

cracks. Check sleeve bearing, clean and lubricate. Adjust for proper play 
5 
Unload car[s], check the worn gear back lash and adjust by removal of 
sheaves as required 

S/FM 
 

6 
Check motor bearings, clean and lubrication 
SM 
 
7 
Check that the gear coupling belts are tight 
SM 
 
8 
Check oil seals and gear box and fresh oil 
SM 
 
9 
Remove brake shoes, clean and refit or replace brake linings, inspect 
Pins, springs, clean and reassemble. Check that brake drum is not scored 
or worn unevenly. 

SM 
 

10 
Clean guide and guide shoes with Carbon Tetra Chloride [C Cl O4] and 
flushing all oil and re-lubrication thereafter clean the pit 

M 
 

Signature of the Contractor                                             
 
   
  Testing Officer 

Dated: 

Note:   Abbreviations used in the tender are as under: 

  
[a]  
O     
-     
Operator [Lift]                   

[b]  
SM    
-    
Senior Mechanic [Lifts] 

[c]  
S      
-     
Superintendent [Lifts] 

[d]  
M      
-     
Mechanic [Lifts] 

[e] 
FM    
-      
Foreman  

38. 
Outsoucring Services for Lifts : Manning and operation of lifts shall be carried out as specified in 
Schedule with manpower as specified. Quoted rate in schedule ‘A’ for the same is inclusive of the following: (a) In 
case of non function of one passenger lifts, the other lift installed in the same building to be operated as directed. 
(b) The unit rate is deemed to include for maintaining log books, record of repairs/replacement of 
perished/unserviceable, minor adjustmewnts minor repairs of all accessories, cleaning /upkeeping of lift & 
surrounding area. (c) One emergency light and necessary tools should be available in a tool box with operator for 
smooth functioning of installations. (d) Before commencement of work the contractor shall submit the list of 
manpower to be employed as per requisite qualifications specified in particular specifications for approval of GE 
duly recommended by Engr-in-Charge.(e) General cleanliness of lift room/machine room will be responsibility of 
the contractor repair/maintenance of internal lighting of lift room etc., Necessary dewatering as requird through 
pump and piping accessories from the lift chamber is also the responsibility of the contractor. The contractor has 
to make sufficient arrangement under his own before commencement of the contract).  
 
38.1 
The contractor shall obtain signature of Junior Engineer of the GE at MES office in token of satisfactory 
operation of lifts. The contractor shall be available for 24 hours call back services for attending all types of 
complaints. However, the contractor shall engage additional manpower as per the job requirement without any 
extra cost and in case of repairs/emergencies. Operator shall promptly attend to each lift for manning and 
operation.  In case of absent from duty, the GE may at his absolute discretion impose penalty on the contractor a 
sum of  TWICE the quoted rate/previlling minimum wages  which ever is higher for each shift. The decision 
of the GE as to whether a particular lift has been operated/manned or not on a particular day will be final and 
binding.   

38.2 
The contractor shall not pay lower than the previlling minimum wages to the outsourced personal and 
payment shall be made direct to Aadhar linked bank account of the staff.  
 
38.3 
The contractor shall provide uniform to all the outsouced staff as approved by the GE.  
 

 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 428 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
 
39. 
SWIMMING POOL    
 
39.1 
The tenderer shall have to guarantee to the quality of the water being maintained in the swimming 
pool as per provisions given in IS-3328-1965, with the provision of equipments catered in the Sch ‘A’ 
and any extra provisions required to maintain the swimming pool in conformity with the provisions 
given in IS-3328-1965 shall be provided by the contractor at no extra cost. 
 
39.2 
The unit rate quoted by the tenderer for supply and installation of the equipments shall be deemed to 
include the cost of foundation wherever necessary. 
 
39.3 
The swimming pool system primarily consists of supply, installtions, test and commissioning the 
equipments and connected works such as quartz sand filter, pump unit, ioniser unit, pool cleaning 
arrangements, drain system, control panel, pool piping, pool accessories and chlorine stabilizers all as 
per the specifications given hereinafter. 
 
39.4 
QUARTZ SAND FILTER  
 
 
39.4.1 
This is required for filteration of suspended impuritues like dirt, dust, mud, collides and similar 
contamination in the pool water. Essentially this is a vertical pressure vessel consructed out of heavy 
structural steel plates by joining vertical cylinder with two dish ends, one at top and one at bottom. 
Proper heavy duty legs are provided and bottom disc to make it self standing. One manhole with cover 
plate at top and one hand hole with cover plate at side near bottom are provided for maintenance 
purposes.  
 
39.4.2 
A manifold type detachable distributor is fitted inside top disc through which water enteres in the filter. 
For spreading the water uniformly over entire filter cross-section, 16 Nos PP pipe laterals in assorted 
lengths, are fitted on this manifold distributor. A similar manifold type collector is fitted inside bottom 
disc on which 16 Nos of PP pipe laterals, in assorsted lengths are fitted. The filtered water is collected 
here for exit from filter. Both these manifolds are connected to each other by frontal piping on outside 
of vessel. The frontal piping is equipped with one inlet, one outlet, one backwash outlet and one rings 
outlet, all being a flanged type, 05 Nos of diaphragm type valves, rubber lined, flange end type, in CI 
material are fitted in frontal piping for easier operation and simple, quick maintenance.  
 
39.4.3 
A separate air release outlet of one inch NB size, fitted with one No rubber lined, CI diaphragm valve is 
provided on top dish at 90degree orientaion from frontal piping. Pressure gauge connections are 
provided on frontal piping at inlet and outlet points. The sand filter is constructed in str steel plates of 
Mild steel conforming to IS-2026/69. Frontal piping and manifolds in mild steel conforming to IS-1239. 
The entire fabrications are done to confirm with ASME Sec VIII, Div 1 codes. All weld joints are 
checkered by D.P. Test Entire Vessel is tested to 10 Kg/Sqcm by using a hydrailic pressure.  
 
39.4.4 
The sand filter is finished on internal contact surfaces by chlorine resistant bituminous coating and one 
external non-contact surface by two coats of zinc oxide primer followed by two coats of synthetic 
enamel in conformation to GMP color codes.  

 
39.4.5 
All valves are painted in identifiable color combinations to provide simplicity to operators. The filter is 
equipped with QUARTZ sand as filter media in five grades. The filter sand gravel shall comply with 
requirements of IS-8419 (Part-I) 1977. 
 
39.5 
FILTER FEED PUMP WITH PRE FILTER 

 
39.5.1 
The pump unit is required to circulate water for filration. The pump unit consists of two pumps 
alongwith motor and prefilter, fitted systematically on a common channel stand that is firmly grouted 
in floor concrete. Flange type of ball valaves in poly propalene material are fitted on both delivery as 
well as suction sides of each pump. These are of horizontal mounting, centrifugal type and suction, 
vertical delivery. Centrifugal type pumps conforming to DIN 24255. 
 
39.6 
SPECIFICATIONS FOR FILTER FEED PUMP WITH PRE FILTER: Filter feed pump of suitable capacity 
shall be provided as specified in Schedule A items.   
 
39.7 
Ozonator unit shall be provided with booster pump, venture, ozonator panel, piping, oxygen 
concentrator, ozonator electrode –SS-316, Capacity of ozonator 100 gms/hr, Electrode SS-316. 
 
39.8 
Stainless steel gratings shall be provided as specified in Schedule over drain out sumps in swimmng 
pool as shown in drawings.  
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 429 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
39.9 
POOL CLEANING ARRANGEMENT: This is simple but manually operated vaccum type pool cleaning 
arrangement that can be used with the help of main circulating pump trolley mounted type. This 
consists of a sturdy and heavy, extruded aluminium, rectangular box in which a flat and long, nylon 
bristle brush is fitted on bottom side. The box is closed on topside except for a 2” NB hose nipple 
outlet through which it is connected to suction piping of main pumps using flexible pipe. A strainer is 
fitted on this line near pump for trapping debris like stones, leaves, hairpins, plastics etc. which 
otherwise go to pump and likely to damage the impeller. The suction head is also fitted with sturdy 
nylon guide wheels that facilitate easy movement on the pool floor. Two brackets fitted on either side 
of suction head are used to tie thick ¾” size nylon ropes for pulling the suction head while cleaning 
operation. The nylon brush is spring loaded and hence does positive brushing of tiles while loosened 
dirt is immediately sucked by pump and finally trapped in the filter. 
 
39.10 
DIVING SPRING BOARD: This will consist of a laminated diving board supported on a rigid mechanical 
function which will be grouted on suitable concrete platform on the deck, all as shown on drawing. The 
design & size to confirm with FINA standards (a) Size - 0.5 Metre width x 5 Metre Length (b) Material - 
FRP laminated with wooden core. 
 
39.11 
Swimming pool items, Filtration plant and accessories shall be provided all as per Sch ‘A’ and Particular 
Specifications. In case of omission of provision of any item/specification in the tender documents, 
which is otherwise required for the entire completion of work, the same shall be provided/adopted all 
as per approved manufacturer’s instructions. The cost of such item(s) shall be deemed to be included 
in the lump sum cost quoted by the tenderer. Contractor shall not have any claim on account of this 
and the decision of the Accepting Officer in this regard shall be final and binding. 
 
39.12  
TESTING: On completion of work, before commisionig the pool for use, the water in the pool shall be 
tested for maintaining the required parameters for quality water in terms of IS-3328-1965 for 
contineous period of 10 days and certificate obtained from any Govt laboratories for the samples of 
water collected in presence of Engr-in-Charge. The certificate so obtained shall be submitted to GE 
through Engr-in-Charge duly signed by contractor and Engr-in-Charge.  
 
39.12.1  
On successful completion of testing, the plant shall be further tested for its overall performance by an 
Officer nominated by accepting officer for 16 Hrs and water samples shall be collected and sealed 
during the working of plants every 4 hourly and got tested from Govt Testing Laboratories to certify 
that the quality of water is maintained in the pool contineously in terms of IS-3328-1965.  
 
39.12.2 
The final test report duly signed by Engr-in-Charge and contractor submitted to accpeting officer with 
the recommendation of testing officer through Garrison Engineer for acceptance of test. On approval 
of the test, the swimming pool shall be taken over by GE from contractor. In case the test is failed, the 
contractor shall make arrangement to rectify the plant and offer retest. All the arrangement or test, 
sampling bottles for collecting water, laboratories testing fees etc shall be paid by the contractor and 
no extra payment is admissible on this account. The unit rate quoted for the work shall be deemed to 
include the cost of testing also.  
 
39.13 
TRAINING OF MES PERSONNEL: MES personnel shall be trained for the operation and maintenance of 
plants including daily testing of water etc for period of 2 weeks before handing over the plants.  
 
39.14 
LITERATURE FOR RECORD: During the handing over of swimming pool detailed instruction on 
operation and aintenance manual of plants and its trouble shooting etc shall be prepared in a printed 
and bound form alongwith drawing etc and handed over to the department in triplicate for record. 
Printed and bound 10 books of 100 pages A4 size each for log sheets for recording daily working 
parameters like water pressure, working hours, PH value, chlorine presence etc and including 10 
registers for recording routine maintenance of plant etc shall be handed over to the department while 
handing over the swimming pool. The cost of these items shall be deemed to be included in the rates 
quoted for various items. 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 430 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
40. 
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANTS (STP)  
 
40.1 
The scope includes supply and construction, installation, commissioning of Sewage Treatment Plants of 
various capacities as specified in Schedule ‘A’ Part-I. STP plant based on MBBR technology along with 
campus development works on turnkey basis. Including Commissioning & trail run, including all civil, 
electrical, mechanical, instrumentation and all other allied Works. 
 
40.2 
The contractor shall get STP executed through any one of the OEMs Approved by E-in-C’s Branch for 
MBBR Technology i.e (i) M/s Optimus Enviropro Pvt Ltd. (ii) M/s Nitasha Constructions (iii) M/s 
Sophisticated Industrial Materials Analytics (SIMA) Labs Pvt Ltd. (iv) M/s HydrotechParyavaran (India) 
Pvt Ltd. (v) M/s Sombansi Enviro Engg Pvt Ltd. (SEEPL) (vi) M/s Ion Exchange (India) Ltd 
 
40.3 
DESIGN:   
 
40.3.1 
Moving Bed Bio-film Reactor (MBBR) has been accepted as standard biological method of treatment of 
sewage. Salient features of MBBR technology are as under: -  
 
(a) Small cylindrical shaped polyethylene carrier added in aerated or non aerated basin to support bio-
film growth. Biomass grows primarily on protected surface on the inside of the carriers. These carriers 
occupy 25-70% of tank volume. Air agitation or mixers are used to continuously circulate carriers. 
Perforated plates at the outlet of the tanks keeps biofilm carrier inside the tank.  
 
(b) MBBR can be a single reactor or configured as several reactors-in-series. MBBR provides Five times 
the Bio-film Surface Area in less than % Reactor Volume as Trickling Filter.  
 
(c) No probiems with odours, snails or red-worms as in air phase fixed films. MBBR is Non clogging 
system.  
 
(d) Retention of the carrier within the reactor encourages selection and enrichment for organisms that 
are best adapted to the nutrient conditions that prevail in that reactor at steady state.  
 
(e) The specific surface area of carrier is about 500m2/m3— 1000 m2/m3. The carriers are slightly 
buoyant and have a specific gravity between 0.94 and 0.96 g/cm3. Life of carrier is around 15-20 
years. Retention time in MBBR should be around 2 — 4 hr.  
 
(f) Adequate preliminary treatment including scum (oil & grease) removal is required to prevent the 
accumulation of inert material in MBBR tank and to prevent plastic bio-film carries' retention screen 
blinding.  
 
(g) Well designed aeration system is essential to promote the rolling water circulation pattern that 
uniformly distributes plastic bio-film carriers throughout the MBBR. 
 
 (h) Diffused aeration is used for aerobic MBBR tank (Course bubble diffusion) with typical oxygen 
transfer rates of 2.5 — 3.5 % per meter of water submergence and air flow rate = 6 to 8 m3/m2.h.  
 
(i) Length-to-width ratio (L:W) in the range 0.5:1 to 1.5:1. Ratio more than these results in non 
uniform distribution of bio carriers.  
 
(j) Bio-film thickness is controlled by air flow or mechanical mixing energy.  
 
(k) Medium-rate MBBRs typically are designed for an OLR in the range 5 to 10 g BODs/m2.d. Higher-
rate systems require chemically enhanced liquid—solids separation and/or flotation. OLR = 45-60 g 
BODs/m2d @25 °C.  
 
(l) MBBR do not require any return activated sludge or backwashing. Quantity of sludge produced is 
much less in comparison to activated sludge process.  
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 431 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
40.3.2  Sludge Drying:  With MBBR STPs the quantity of sludge produced is much less in comparison to 

traditional STPs. The sludge from MBBR does not require any further stabilization except dewatering and 
drying. Any mechanical means of dewatering can be used followed by sludge drying in traditional sludge 
drying beds. The sludge drying process is affected by weather, sludge characteristics, system design 
(including depth of bed) and length of time between scraping and lifting of sludge material. High 
temperature and high wind velocity improve drying, while high relative humidity and precipitation retard 
drying. The average cycle time for drying may range from a few days to 2 weeks in warmer climates to 3 
to 6 weeks or even more in unfavourable ones.  
 
40.3.3  Tertiary Treatment : Tertiary treatment is done to bring the quality of effluent from MBBR / STP to the 

reusable standards. It consists of Pressure sand filter, Adsorption chamber and disinfection. Normally all 
three are arranged in series.  
 
40.3.4  Pressure Sand Filter : The pressure sand filter (PSF) is used as a tertiary treatment unit to trap the 

trace amounts of solids which escape the clarifier, and can typically handle up to 50 mg/I of solids in an 
economical manner. This unit is essentially a pressure vessel that is filled with graded media (sand and 
gravel). The water filtered with PSF is passed on to the next stage in the STP chain i.e. the Activated 
Carbon Filter.  
 
40.3.5 The Filter vessel is designed as a pressure vessel (it consists of a straight cylindrical shell, with convex 

dish-shaped ends welded to the top and bottom). The pressure filter is designed for a working pressure 
of 2 Kg/CM2. In small diameter vessels, it is customary to provide a bolted dish at the top for ease of 
maintenance. In large filters, a manhole of > 0.6 m dia is provided at the top.  
 
40.3.6 An average design filtration rate of 10 - 12 m3/ m2/hr of filter crosssectional area, is used for designing 

these filters. .The filter needs backwash when the pressure drop across the filter exceeds 0.5 kg/cm2. 
However, it is a good practice to backwash once in a shift, irrespective of the actual amount of pressure 
loss. A five to ten minute backwash will typically rid the filter of all accumulated muck.  
 
40.3.7  Activated Carbon Filter : An activated carbon filter, like the Pressure Sand Filter, is a tertiary treatment 

unit. It receives the water that is already filtered by the Pressure Sand Filter and improves multiple quality 
parameters of the water: BOD, COD, clarity (turbidity), color and odor.  
 

40.3.8 Activated carbon is typically manufactured from coconut shell or charcoal, the "activation" process 

creating a highly porous material with a very large surface area. Organic pollutant molecules are 
physically adsorbed and held fast within the catacomb-like porous structure of the activated carbon. 
Granular activated carbon is typically used for this purpose.  
 
40.3.9 Unlike in the case of the sand filter, trapped molecules in the carbon cannot be backwashed and got rid 

of. Hence, activated carbon in the filter has a finite capacity to adsorb and hold the pollutants, after which 
the carbon is said to be exhausted. The exhausted material is removed from the filter and disposed off: 
Fresh activated carbon is charged in the filter.  
 
40.3.10  Disinfection : The treated water is disinfected to destroy and render harmless disease-causing 

organisms, such as bacteria,. viruses, etc. The most common methods of disinfection include Chlorination, 
Ozonation and UV radiation. Of these, Chlorine finds widespread application. In most STPs, the common 
form of Chlorine used is Sodium Hypochlorite (Hypo) available commercially at 10-12 % strength, being 
safe, easy to handle and having a reasonable shelf life. 
 
40.3.11 
The contractor shall submit in Cover-1, the Name/ Names of OEMs approved by E-in-C’s Branch from 
whom the STP is proposed to be executed. In case of contractor fails to submit name of OEM for STP 
vendor in Cover-I, Cover-II in respect of the firm shall not be opened. The name of the specialist firm 
shall be got approved in writing from GE before execution. 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 432 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
40.4 
Sewage Characteristics: The contractor shall be responsible to achieve the desired parameters of 
treated sewage and has to submit the report from the SPCB Authorised or NABL certified laboratory for 
Raw sewage charecterstics as per site sample and treated sewage charecterstics as per IS limits 
before seeking the completion of the work: -  
 
40.5 
PREPARATION OF THE PLANTS FOR COMMISSIONING  
 
40.5.1 
After completion of the installation at the site and before preparation of plant for commissioning, the 
contractor shall carry out checking and testing of all equipment and installation in accordance with the 
agreed standards codes of practice of ISI and specific instruction furnished by the equipment supplier 
as well as the GE.  
 
40.5.2 
Checking required to be made on all equipment and installation at site shall comprise (but not be 
limited to) of the following: - 
  

a) Physical inspecting for removal of any foreign bodies, external defects such as damaged / loose 

connected bolts etc.  

b) Check for grease, insulation / lubricating oil leakage and its proper quality.  

c) Check for tightness of all cable, bus bars as well as earth connections in the main earthing network.  

d) Check for clearance of live bus bars and conductors from the metal enclosures.  

e) Continuity check in case of power and control cables.  

f) Checking of all mechanical and electrical interlocks including tripping of breakers using manual 

operation of relays.  

g) Checking of alarm and actuation circuit, manual actuation of relevant relays like Bucholtz relay in 

case of transformer.  

h) Check and calibrate devices requiring field adjustment / calibration like adjustment of settings.  

i) Check proper connections to earth network of non current carrying parts of the equipment / 

installation.  

j) Check for liquid level in batteries. Testing of cables and earthing system shall be all as described in 

the relevant clauses.  

40.5.3 On completion of the work contractor shall submit 5 copies of layout of equipment & panels, LT cables 

and wiring diagram for all equipment as required by the GE for records.  
 
40.6  
INSTALLATION, COMMISSIONING AND TESTING OF STP  
 
40.6.1  INSTALLATION: The plant shall be installed in accordance with the modern practice in a workmanship like 

manner, Special attention shall be paid to the finish and the general appearance. All pipes, gauges and 
other fittings shall be nearly laid/fixed. The plant shall be new and with all ungalvanised metallic Parts 
painted for protection against corrosion.  
 
40.6.2 COMMISSIONING AND TESTING: After the plant are physically completed, it shall be commissioned by the 

Contractor in the presence of Garrison Engineer.  
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 433 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
40.6.3 TESTING:  
 

(a)  
These shall comprise (tests on water tightness of all civil works and on performance of all 
Electrical and Mechanical Works after the plant is loaded and commissioned. The water tightness 
of all structures shall be observed over a period of 7 days and results recorded in triplicate on 
daily basis by the Contractor and Engineer-in-Charge. The performance of Electrical and 
Mechanical Works such as Pumping Sets, Air compressors, controllers and gauges, etc shall be 
observed over the initial period of 24 hours and results recorded in triplicate on a 2 hourly basis 
by the Contractor and Engineer-in-Charge. Simultaneously the physical, chemical and 
bacteriological characteristics of the treated sewage produced by the plant on the second, fourth 
and seventh day after commencement of tests shall be got tested by the contractor from a Govt 
Lab approved as directed by the GE. The tests result shall be produced to the GE in triplicate.  
 
(b)  
The results of water tightness test and performance tests shall be satisfactory in all respects as 
laid down in the relevant Indian Standards. The physical, chemical & bacteriological 
characteristics of each of the three samples of treated sewage shall desired parameters of 
effluent stated 
 
(c)  
All arrangements for conducting the test shall be made by the Contractor. Supply of electricity 
shall however be made by the Department at specified cost to the contractor. The contractor 
shall be responsible for arrangement of testing equipment and supply of all materials &labour for 
test & conduct the tests successfully to the satisfaction of Garrison Engineer.  
 
(d)  
The plants shall be taken over by the GE after satisfactory completion of Tests.  
 
40.7 
TRAINING:  

(a) The contractor before finally handing over the plants, be responsible for training Department 
personnel deputed by the GE in proper operation, periodical maintenance and trouble shooting of 
both the plants.  
 
(b) After the plants are taken over by the GE, the contractor’s technical representative shall 
remain available at both site for a period of Eight weeks to instruct and assist the aforesaid 
personnel in the actual operation, maintenance and trouble shooting of the plants.  
 
40.8 
GUARANTEE The contractor shall guarantee the plant for a period of 24 months. The guarantee period 
shall commence from the date of satisfactory completion of work & taken over the plants by the GE. 
During this period of 24 months, the contractor shall be responsible for any defect of damage which, in 
the opinion of the GE is not due to fair wear and tear. In case of difference of opinion between the GE 
and the contractor as to whether a particular defect/damage is caused due to fair, wear, and tear or 
otherwise, the matter shall be referred to the Accepting Officer whose decision shall be final and binding.  
 
40.9 
DOCUMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED BY CONTRACTOR: Following documents shall be submitted by the 
contractor after successfully commissioning of STP for each STP:-  
 

(i)  
Manufacturer’s Technical literature/leaflet in respect of treatment plant including all equipments.  

(ii)  
Instruction Book on the care, operation and periodical –03 copies (daily, weekly, monthly half 

yearly & yearly) maintenance of the entire treatment plant in English.  

(iii)  
Chart showing important Dos & DO NTS to be observed -01 No by the operating staff in operation 

& maintenance of the plant in English. This shall be framed with glass cover.  

(iv)  
-do- but in Hindi -01 No  

(v) 
 Recommended list of 2 years’ normal spares for different -02 Nos Equipments along with Part 

Nos/Catalogue Nos/Manufacturer’s Name.  

(vi) 
Drawing(s) showing plan, elevation and sections of the - 05 copies. Completed buildings/ 

structures.  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 434 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

(vii) 
 Schematic Layout of the completed plant showing all pipes, -01 No Equipments, etc and their 

rated capacities. This shall be framed with glass cover.  

(viii)   Instruction chart with picture showing the emergency first -01 No aid to be given to the victim 

affected by chlorine gas in HINDI framed with glass cover.  

  (ix)      -do- as above but in TELUGU - 01 No  

 
40.10  MINOR DETAIL Any minor details of construction which have not been detailed in the aforesaid 

specifications, but which are fairly intended for the completion of work under this tender shall be deemed 
to have been included in his tender.  
 
40.11 
TAKING OVER OF STPs: Installation will be taken over after completion of testing to the entire satisfaction 
of Engineer-in-Charge and all other details as executed by him together with any other information which 
the Engineer-in-Charge may require, duly signed by both the parties.  
 
40.12 
MAINTENANCE OF THE SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANTS DURING DEFECT LIABILITY PERIOD  
 
40.12.1 The treatment plants will be considered commissioned after the issue of completion certificate. The work 

shall remain from the date of completion under defect liability period as provided under condition 46 of 
IAFW-2249 for two years. During defect liability period of two years as provided under condition 46 of 
IAFW-2249, the Contractor shall be responsible for maintenance of Sewage Treatment Plant.  
 
40.12.2 The maintenance of STPs includes maintenance of electrical and mechanical equipments such as Gen set, 

pumps blowers, diffusers, metering instruments, clarifiers etc maintenances of electrical panels and their 
accessories, maintenances of sewage/effluent pipe lines and valves starting from collection tank upto 
treated effluent pipe lines and valves starting from collection tank upto treated effluent storage tank etc 
to make the system fully operational to the entire satisfaction of Garrison Engineer during defect liability 
period.  
 
40.12.3 The contractor shall also be responsible for periodical cleaning of screens, removal and disposal of 

screens materials to a place as directed by Engineer-in-Charge. The place so decided by the Engineer-in-
Charge shall be more than 500m beyond the boundary gate.  
 
40.12.4 During defect liability period, the tenderer shall ensure proper performance of the units and any 

repair/replacement required in the Sewage treatment plant shall be carried out by the contractor without 
any extra cost to the department. The rate quoted by contractor shall deemed to be inclusive of this 
aspects.  
 
40.12.5 The contractor shall be responsible for maintaining a furnished office with telephone facilities in the 

laboratory building for the administration of “operation” and maintenance and operation” of the plant. 
The Contractor shall submit a programme detailing the testing procedures of the plant and all its 
components, a training programme for the operators, and a training programme for practical operation 
and maintenance of the plant, for the approval of the Engineer-in-Charge herein after referred to as “Test 
Prior to Taking Over”.  
 
40.12.6  Comprehensive test shall be carried out six months before the end of the defect liability period, aimed at 

examining the adequacy of all units involved in the process as well as all equipments, electrical and 
mechanical installations and pipe line works. Each item shall be tested separately and its adequacy tested 
in the frame work of the plant as a whole.  
 
40.12.7  Where the “Test Prior to Taking Over” reveals faults, stemming from deficiencies, poor maintenance or 

other reasons, the contractor shall replace or repair the faulty items at his expense. The Contractor shall 
repair at his expense all the deficiencies and malfunctions pointed out by the Engineer-in-Charge within 
60 days from the date of notice. Should the Contractor not comply with the above the GE shall perform 
the necessary repairs at the Contractor’s expense.  
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 435 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
40.12.8 The Contractor shall be required to provide a full training programme for the MES operators or 

representatives. Practical training and operation shall be an integral part of the “Test Prior to Taking 
Over”.  
 
40.12.9 Prior to Taking over before the end of the defect liability period, the Contractor shall examine the 

mechanical condition, including strength, noise, vibration, lubrication, corrosion protection and painting of 
the plant and shall repair any malfunction, abnormality, peeling of paint, replacement of bearings etc as 
necessary to prove to the Engineer-in-Charge’s satisfaction that the plant is in an acceptable state. The 
GE may carry out any further inspection of the work for purpose of Taking over. On termination of defect 
liability period, the GE will issue a certificate, certifying therein that all defects have been remedied and 
that “Tests Prior to Taking Over” have been satisfactorily completed.  
 
40.12.10 QUALIFICATION AND EXPERIENCE  
 

(a) The contractor shall employ Govt ITI qualified in electrical / mechanical trade as operator (FGM) with 
minimum 2 years experience in relevant field. The helper shall be 10th pass with 2 years experience in 
relevant field.  
 
(b) The contractor is responsible for submitting original certificates for the verification of qualifications, 
experience of persons who are proposed to be employed by him to the Engineer- in-Charge.  
 
(c ) At least 04 numbers of Departmental personnel shall be given hands on training by the contractor for 
a period of one month for operation and maintenance of STP, during the O&M period.  
 
40.12.11 The following points shall be borne in mind while carrying out the operation and comprehensive 
maintenance:-  
 

(a) Quality testing of effluent has to be got done from State PCB APPROVED / NABL CERTIFIED 

laboratory and results to be kept on record as per interval of 3 months and rate quoted are deemed 
to be inclusive of any such test charges.  
 
(b) The cost of removal of sludge from drying units and disposal of the same outside MD land as per local 

civil authorities laid down rules is also deemed to be included in the above quoted rate.  
 
(c) Keeping the STP neat & clean at all time and the work assigned by JE (CIVIL)/ AGE (CIVIL) from time 

to time. The fenced area or a distance of 3 metres shall be kept clear of all bushes and grass. The 
lighting in the rooms shall be fully functional and the same shall be maintained at no extra cost.  
 
(d) Safeguard the STP which are being operated and ensure no entry of unauthorized persons into the 

installation.  
(e) The Contractor shall follow the maintenance schedule for maintenance and operation of the STP as 

given by the OEM and shall be liable for abiding by the schedule. All operation and maintenance 
procedures shall be carried out through appropriate relevant standards, regulations and labour laws.  
 
(f) Engineer of OEM (engaged by the contractor for the SITC work), must visit the plant once in every 6 

months and submit the certificate to GE that plant is operated and maintained by the contractor as 
per his O&M Manual and plant is working satisfactorily. In case of failure, it will be considered as the 
breach of contract and department will take necessary action against OEM and Contractor and also 
report the matter to the approving/enlisting authority for necessary action.  
 
(g) The contractor shall ensure that the premises around the buildings & RCC structures are kept clean 

and tidy complete all as directed by Enginee-in-Charge.  
 
(h) All the stationeries required during currency of the contract like registers, log books etc are covered 

under the scope of work. The rate quoted shall be deemed to include the cost of stationeries.  
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 436 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
40.13 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS TO BE ADHERED TO BY THE TENDERER  
 

(a) The contractor will be responsible for safety of his personnel including government property in the 

installation.  
 
(b) The operating staff shall have thorough knowledge of safety precautions during emergency cases 

and also shall be well conversant with water supply/electricity acts/rules as applicable.  
 
(c) Necessary notice boards containing instructions for precautions to be followed in case of 

emergency/risks/accidents shall be displayed at locations as required under law and as directed by 
Engineer-in-Charge.  
 
(d) First aid box/first aid chart required as per statute shall be maintained at installations.  
 
(e) The operating personnel shall be provided with protective clothing and shall wear them while on 

duty. In case of any accident / injury fatal or partial disability the contractor shall be solely 
responsible for settling all claims / compensation. Department will have the right to recover any sum 
indicated / claimed by labour commissioner / court directive. GE however will ensure that the 
contractor has provided all adequate and required means to the workmen. The contractor may get 
his personnel insured at his own discretion.  
 
(f) No compensation will be payable to contractor consequent on accident/loss of life of his employees 

caused due to his negligence. 
  
(g) The installation shall be operated on all days irrespective of holidays and Sundays. Contractor shall 

be required to employ reserve operators if performance of contract consequent on labour regulation 
statute on working of personnel on national holidays etc and also on any day when operator(s) 
is/are absent from duty. Nothing extra will be payable on the account.  
 
(h) The contractor shall maintain required registers as directed by Engineer-inCharge which shall be 

signed by contractor's representative/Engineer-in-charge.  
 
(j) The tools required for the manning and operation shall be brought by the contractor.  
 
(k) Major repairs to STP are covered under defects liability. BOQ rates deemed to include for minor 

repairs and rectification to installation to be necessitated due to negligence or wrong operation of 
the installation on the part of the operator. The decision of the GE whether the repair/rectification is 
necessitated due to negligence on the part of operator or not shall be final and binding.  
 
(l) On completion of each month, a completion certificate is to be issued by the Engineer-in- Charge for 

purpose of interim payment to contractor supported by attendance register duly signed by contractor 
and Engineer-in-Charge.  
 
(m) Any material / repairs required for efficient operation shall be brought to the notice of JE / Engineer-

in-Charge for immediate supply of spares / repairs through other agencies.  
 
(n) In the event of non-functioning of STP or any loss or damage caused to any item of the STP, any 

other structures in respect of the above work during the currency of the contract the same shall be 
made good by the contractor at no extra cost to the government. If the contractor fails to do so, the 
government reserves the right to make recoveries from the contractor for the loss or damage at 
double the prevailing market rates as decided by the Garrison Engineer whose decision shall be final 
and binding.  
 
(o) The contractor shall comply with all the provisions laid down in Contract Labour Act such as payment 

of minimum fair wages.  
 
(p) The operation personnel shall limit their movement to the particular installation and shall not 

trespass to the surrounding areas.  
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 437 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

(q) Shift duty roster will be prepared in advance by the contractor of the Sewage Treatment Plant and 

will be produced for the approval of Engineer-in-Charge before it is implemented. Three copies of 
the approved duty roster will be submitted in the office of Engineer-in-Charge and copy will be 
displayed at the installation. Any change in duties thereafter will only permissible in consultation with 
the Engineer-in-Charge.  
 
(r) Routine maintenance Schedule shall be carried out by the contractor and the same shall be recorded 

in the proper proforma and duly countersigned by the representative of the Department i.e. 
Engineer-in-Charge/ JE (CIVIL) charge.  
 
(s) Daily log sheet will be for all the modules of the Sewage Treatment Plant as described under BOQ as 

advised by JE (CIVIL) / Engineer-in-Charge.  
 
40.14 
All consumables/chemicals like Sodium Hypo Chlorite, Alum powder, Dewatering Poly Electrolyte and 
Aerobic type bio culture powder for development of bacteria during the defects liability period shall be 
ncluded in the quoted rate nothing shall be paid on this account.  
 
40.15 
The contractor shall obtain signature of Junior Engineer of the GE at MES office in token of satisfactory 
operation of STPs. The contractor shall be available for 24 hours call back services for attending all types 
of complaints. However, the contractor shall engage additional manpower as per the job requirement 
without any extra cost and in case of repairs/emergencies. Operator shall promptly attend to each STPs 
for manning and operation. In case of absent from duty, the GE may at his absolute discretion impose 
penalty on the contractor a sum of  TWICE the quoted rate/previlling minimum wages  which ever 
is higher for each shift. The decision of the GE as to whether a particular lift has been operated/manned 
or not on a particular day will be final and binding.   

40.16 
The contractor shall not pay lower than the previlling minimum wages to the outsourced personal and 
payment shall be made direct to Aadhar linked bank account of the staff.  
 
40.17 
The contractor shall provide uniform to all the outsouced staff as approved by the GE.  
 
40.18 
The contractor shall also be responsible for periodical cleaning of screens removal and disposal of screens 
material & Salvage materials/sludge obtained after treatment to a place outside defence land. 
 
40.19 
The contractor shall be get the testing of treated sewage from approved test laboratory ( NABL certified 
or state PCB approved) and keep records duly signed by Engineer-in-Charge as per interval of 3 months 
to ascertain result of treated sewage all as per requirement given in particular specification here-in-after. 
Expenditure for the same shall be borne by the contractors and is deemed to be included in quoted rates. 
 
40.20 
No T & P will be issued by the department for doing the above work, it shall be arranged and provided by 
the contractor like PH testing kit, chlorine test kit, turbidity test kit, pipe wrench, screw drivers, sluice 
valve opening /closing kit, cutting plier, digging tools etc. 
 
40.21 The STP will be operated for 24 hours per day, unless otherwise specified by the Engineer-in-Charge / GE. 

Necessery recovery will be made for non operation of plants per shift at the proportional rate and the 
same shall be final and binding. 
 
40.22 
Proper and effeicient functioning of the plant must be ensured through regular inspection by qualified 
Engineer bi-monthly preferably by OEM or by his authorised agency. 
 
40.23   As per Govt policy, adequate amount of insurance of all the the workers shall be made against any 

accident before commencement of the work without extra cost to the department. 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 438 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
41.0 
MODULAR OT:  Refer relevant items of Schedule ‘A’ in conjunction with manufracturers instructions. 
 
41.1 
Wall & Ceilling with Paint: The inner surface wall / ceiling should be constructed with 1.5 mm thick 
EGP Sheet backed by 12 mm gypsum board to be fixed by grouting on the walls of OT, constructed 
with solid bricks with cement plastering. Anti bacterial paint should be seamless, easy to clean, steam 
cleaned, electrometric should be ideal for high humidity areas, should have vapor permeability which 
allows substrate moisture to escape, protects against growth of bacteria, mould and yeasts, moisture 
resistance, freeze / thaw resistance. Anti bacterial paint should not leach out and its anti microbial 
system should remain active through out the life of the product. Vapors permeable structure should 
allow damp substrates to dry out without causing blistering. It tolerates harsh cleaning and chemical 
agents; dry film thickness of finished surface is 300 microns. Filling of all joints and cavities with 
metallic epoxy filler and sanded flush to provide a joint‐less finish and then sprayed with a water 
based liquid plastic aseptic and self sterilizing wall coating system.  
 
41.2 
HERMETICALLY SEALED DOORS: Adjustable parameters: Self adjustment Opening speed Closing 
speed Hold open time Automatic lock activation delay Malfunction alerts via display Should be 
composed of a motor with reduction gear, powered by a single phase power supply; magnetic encoder 
to determine position, speed and moving direction of sliding leaves; electronic control panel with a 
microprocessor, self‐monitoring system and inverter technology with independent adjustment of 
voltage and frequency with wide toothed drive belt. Mechanical sealing device to direct hermetic leaf 
down and against wall to seal perimeter of opening. Mechanical fail‐safe device ‐ Composed of a 
spring to mechanically open automatic door in the event of a power failure. Photocell barrier ‐ Safety 
device composed of an infrared transmitter and a receiver located on both sides of the door. This 
safety device is monitored by the electronic control board of automatic door operator. If the leaves are 
in open position or in motion and the infrared beam is obstructed by an object or person, the control 
panel will reopen the door and hold it open while the infrared beam remains obstructed. Switch ‐ 
Device should be used to manually activate and open the door. Specifically designed for use in clean 
rooms. Vision panel ‐ double glaze vision panel, flushed with the door surface to avoid the 
accumulation of dust and bacteria. Square window size 300 mm x 300 mm. Security floor rail ‐ 
Aluminium security floor rail with one or two channels, to ensure the correct movement of the door.  
 
41.3 
LAMINAR FLOW CEILING SYSTEM: Laminar flow Ceiling system with unidirectional airflow with Hepa 
filters with an efficiency 99.97% down to 0.3 micron. The holding structure & top plenum are made up 
of Aluminium Sheet with a thickness of 1.6mm. It should be sealed with gasket conforming to DIN 
4799 standards for the air distribution system, 2 layer diffuser with monofilament precision woven 
polyester of uniform porosity with an open area of sufficient resistance to create laminar from diffusers 
face and integral lighting provides an illumination level in excess of 15000 Lux in operating area and 
10000 Lux other with flicker less digitally controlled step less dimming down to 5%.  
 
41.4  
MEDICAL GAS PIPELINE INSIDE OPERATION THEATRE. All pipes shall be drawn half hard temp., solid 
drawn, seamless, phosphorous deoxidised, non‐arsenic and degreased copper pipe conforming to BS 
2871‐1971 Part 1 (Table X) and chemical compositon as per BS‐6017 of 1981 table 2 The supplies of 
copper pipe (MEXFLOW) would be accompanied with manufacturers test certificate for the physical 
properties of copper pipes and their Chemical composition. The supply of pipes be further 
substantiated with inspection certificate from the third party like SGS/Lloyds Register. The Pipeline will 
be laid as per HTM‐2022 or NFPA 99.   
 
41.5 
 ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION BOARD. All high voltage equipment should be installed in a separate 
enclosure. The remote cabinet should house operating lamp transformers, mains failure relays, 
electrical distribution equipment and circuit protection equipment for all circuits within the operating 
theatre. All internal wiring is terminated in connectors with screw and clamp spring connections of 
Clip‐ on type mounted, on a DIN rail and labeled with indelible proprietary labels. Individual fuses or 
miniature circuit breakers protect all internal circuits.  
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 439 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
41.6 
PERIPHERAL LIGHTS. Clean‐room imported surface‐mounted and recessed luminaries with 3 T5 lamps 
54 W. Framed luminaries cover made of highly‐resistant and disinfectant ‐ consistent laminated safety 
glass. With visual systems against glare of the lamps and of the internal highly secular reflectors, 
cumulative reflex ion coated, singular adjustable by up to +/‐ 30°. Lumina ire body white, consists of 
sheet steel with mechanical and electrical removable carrier equipment. Protection IP 65. With 
dimmable electronic multi‐lamp ballast with 1‐10 V interface. Suitable for areas with infrared 
regulation.  
 
41.7 
 SURGICAL SCRUB: 3 Bay Surgical Scrub station should be designed for use in Operation theatre 
complex providing surgeons with a convenient sink for pre op scrub up. Each fixture is fabricated from 
Stainless Steel grade 304, It should be seamless welded construction polished to a stain finish. The 
scrub sink is provided with a front access panel, which is easily removed for access to the water 
control valve, waste connections, stoppers and strainers. Hands free operation includes infrared sensor 
with built in range of adjustment. Thermostatic mixing valve control for constant water temperature. 
User defined settings of 1, 3, 5 min are available. This timing is adjustable to meet individual 
application requirement, provided with infrared sensor thermostatic controlled taps with fail 
temperature controls. Foot / Knee operated switch offered as an option.  
 
41.8 
WRITING BOARD. List board should be made up of ceramic material, having Magnetic properties and it 
should be flushed to the wall of the operating room.  
 
41.9 
X‐RAY VIEWING SCREEN Should be designed to provide a high level of control luminance without 
flicker. The system should comply electrical safety codes for high and low voltage system. The theatre 
should be equipped with X‐Ray viewing screen. It should be designed to provide flicker free luminance 
for the film viewing purpose. It should be installed flushed with theatre wait for hygienic and ease of 
cleaning purpose. The X‐Ray viewing screen should be designed for the purpose of front access. The 
X‐ ray viewing screen should be illuminated by 4 pieces of fluorescent lamps and dimming is controlled 
by the usage of dimming ballast with the PCB that is mounted inside the box. The diffuser should be 
able to diffuse the light evenly and to provide enough luminance for film viewing. It is made of high 
quality opaque acrylic sheet. The film is held firmly by using spring‐loaded clips for ease of mounting 
and demounting. The body is built by electrolyzed steel with powder coated. It works on a PCB button 
control system.  
 
41.10 
MEMBRANE TYPE OPERATION THEATRE ROOM CONTROL PANEL: Membrane type Operation Theatre 
Control Panel (7 service Tiles) mounted. Flushed in the theatre wall with complete distribution board 
with all accessories. Following are the controls/display available: ‐ * 1 no Day Time Digital Clock. * 1 
no Elapsed Time Digital Clock. * 1 no Hands Free Telephone. * Peripheral light Control * Medical Gas 
Alarm for 4 gases. * Temperature & Humidity Indicator. * Alarm for Vacuum.  
 
41.11 
DIRTY HATCH BOX. A hatch should be provided in each Operation theatre to remove waste materials 
from the operation theatre to dirty linen area just adjacent to Operation Theatre. Each hatch is 
equipped with two doors and the doors are electronically interlocked i.e. the hatch is designed in such 
a way that only one door can be opened at one time. The UV light is so installed that it is kept on 
while both the doors are closed. This UV light turns off automatically in case of opening of either of the 
doors. There are indicators on both sides of the OT so that door open / close status can be monitored 
from both ends  
 
41.12 
PENDANT. The ceiling pendant system should be designed to provide convenient positioning thru 
double arm of medical equipment, medical gas terminal units, electrical and specially services. Pendent 
with weight carrying capacity of 100Kg. The pendant should have electrical sockets, one monitor shelf 
and gas outlets for medical gas supply.  
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 440 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
41.13 
PRESSURE RELIEF DAMPERS. PRD should be provided in each room to prevent cross contamination of 
air from clean and dirty areas. Suitably sized air pressure relief damper are strategically placed, 
enabling differential room pressure to be maintained and ensure that when doors are opened between 
clean and dirty areas. Counter‐weight balancing system is provided in PRD to maintain positive 
pressure inside operation room. Air pressure stabilizers have unique capability of controlling differential 
pressure to close tolerance. The PRD remains closed at pressure below the set pressure and can open 
fully at pressure only fractionally above the threshold pressure. The body is epoxy coated as per 
standard BS colors. First class electrolyzed steel plate is used for body and with high grade SS304 
Stainless Steel for blades. 
 
41.15 
ANTISTATIC FLOORING. It should be seamless, static, conductive flooring, resistance to mechanical 
stress and dynamic loads and having EDS / EMI (conductive) protection characteristics, 2 mm thick, 
washable with perfectly curved flash coverings, resistant to mechanical stress and dynamic load and 
washable sliding leaves.  
 
41.16 
DOUBLE COMBINATION OT CEILING LIGHT WITH LED TECHNOLOGY Imported European CE & US 
FDA marked Should have the following Features:  
 
(a) Two Major Dome/light head Single Colour Pure White LEDs Reflector based LED Technology 
Arrangement of LED in such a way that Shadow Free / Deep cavity illumination is achieved. 
 
(b) Special design to maximize the field of illumination and optimized illumination depth should have 
good laminar flow properties Easy and less time consuming service access of electronics on the light 
head dome surface Aluminium Housing for better heat management ESG safety glass for simple and 
fast disinfection process 360 deg rotation of domes/lightheads / arms for unlimited positioning of light 
heads MIS Lightning Feature on domes.  
   
42. 
MEDICAL GASES: Designing, Planning, Supplying, Installing, Testing & Commissioning of the MGPS in the 
entire Hospital building in wards, OT, emergency etc. as per following: 

42.1 
Oxygen Manifold Supply System:  The Oxygen manifold extendable type size 2 x 8 for bulk oxygen 
cylinders, Manifold should be suitable to withstand a working pressure of 140 Kg / cm2 and should be 
Tested after Installation at 140 Kg/cm2 oxygen cylinder pressure. Manifold should also have high 
pressure copper annealed tail pipes with one end having Brass adaptor suitable for oxygen cylinders 
and other end suitable for Manifold Non-Return Valves. Manifold should also have 16 brass non-return 
valves for individual oxygen cylinder. Manifold middle frame of 2 x 8 size should be made with 
circumferential mild steel flat duly powder coated with black colour& along with chain for individual bulk 
O2 cylinder. 

42.2 
Emergency Oxygen Manifold Cylinder System: I t should provide cylinders’ emergency system with high 
flow Pressure Regulators, pig tail pipes, manifold of 8 cylinders with Top & middle frame for Oxygen. 

42.3  Nitrous Oxide Manifold Supply System : The Nitrous Oxide Manifold extendable type size 2 + 2 

for bulk N2O Cylinders. Manifold should be suitable to withstand a working pressure of 140 Kg / cm2 
and should be Tested after Installation at 140 Kg/cm2 Nitrous Oxide Manifold cylinder pressure. Manifold 
should also have high pressure copper annealed tail pipes with one end having Brass adaptor suitable for 
N2O cylinders and other end suitable for Manifold Non-Return Valves. Manifold should also have 4 brass 
non-return valves for individual N2O cylinder. Manifold middle frame of 2 x 4 size should be made with 
circumferential mild steel flat duly powder coated & along with chain for individual bulk N2O cylinder. 

42.4 
Emergency Nitrous Oxide Manifold Cylinder System  ( 2Cylinders ):  It should provide cylinders’ emergency 

system with high flow Pressure Regulators, pig tail pipes, manifold of 2 cylinders with Top & middle frame 

for N2O. Fully Automatic Digital Gas Control Panel as specified. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 441 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

42.4.1 The panel should be enclosed in a metal cabinet with a hinged front cover. The panel cover should be 

fitted with a lock to prevent unauthorized access and can be swung open for maintenance. Should have 

fully automatic changeover operation and requiring no manual action. Gas changeover system should be 

electro-pneumatically operated, in the event of electrical Tenderer failure gas supply should not be 

interrupted. A visual indication of the state of the manifold should be provided by 3 gauges within the 

control panel which are clearly visible through the transparent cover. These gauges are provided to 

indicate the pressure of the right and left-hand banks, and the supply pressure from the control panel to 

the distribution system. The panel should be supplied with sensing facilities to provide visual signals and 

other ancillary services. In addition, the panel should be fitted with audio alarm indication for changeover 

of empty cylinder bank to filled cylinder bank and vice versa. 

The automatic gas manifold control includes: 

--- Two supply pressure gauges 

--- One delivery pressure gauge 

--- Pressure reduction in primary side by two stage incorporating two regulators 

--- Line pressure regulators with bypass valve to facilitate easy maintenance 

--- One line pressure relief valve 

--- Instruction for changing the cylinders clearly identified on the front of the control cabinet 

--- Rated capacity (Delivery) to suit hospital’s requirement 

42.5 
Copper Piping:   Copper pipes (material): Copper Pipes used should be solid drawn, seamless, 
deoxidized, non-arsenical, half hard, tempered and degreased, Manufactured as per EN : 13348 : 2001 
standard, and chemical composition as per CU DHP to 1190-1 and CW 024 A to EN 1412. Pipe sizes 
should be used as per latest BS EN 13348 guidelines. 

42.5.1 Pipeline Installation: Before erection, all copper pipes, valves, fittings like bends, tees, reducers etc. 

should be cleaned for dirt, and Should be degreased. Proper pipe cutters, and bending machine should be 
used during installation of copper pipes. All copper pipes and fittings like bends, Tees, reducers and 
straight couplings Should be as per BS 864 and joined by silver brazing method for copper to 
copper. Inert gas welding technique Should be used by passing Nitrogen gas inside the copper 
pipes during silver brazing, in order to avoid carbon deposition inside the copper pipes. Copper pipes 
of the diameter up to 42mm OD Should be installed on the wall with the help of plastic saddles at the 
required span, as per HTM-2022 of U.K. and metallic white powder coated clamps Should be used for 
pipe sizes above 54mm OD. Wherever the pipes cross brick walls, it should be covered with plastic 
pipes. All pipes should be installed without springing or forcing. All pipes should be protected against 
mechanical injury in a manner satisfactory to authorities having jurisdiction. 

42.5.2 Test: After erection, all the pipes should be cleaned or purged with the help of dry nitrogen gas, & 

Should be tested with dry nitrogen at a pressure of 10 Bar for 48 hours. 

42.5.3 Painting: All installed pipes should be painted with two coats of synthetic enamel paint &colour 

codification as per IS-2379 of 1963. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 442 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

42.6      Master Alarm Panel:   Each Master Alarm will be modular in design and be fitted with any number of 

master alarm modules. The master alarms will be capable to monitor from 10 to 30 points in a standard 
box or 10 to 50 points in a large box. A master alarm module will monitor up to 10 alarm points. Each 
point represents an alarm condition that the source equipment might have. When an alarm condition 
exists, a red light flashes and the audible alarm sounds. If several alarm conditions occur simultaneously, 
the most recent alarm light will flash, while the other alarm lights will remain lit. When an alarm 
condition is created, an audible alarm will be actuated. A dry contact module will be available to interface 
with a building management system.  

42.6.1 The annunciator panel will be equipped with a “TEST” and a “SILENCE/RESET” button. The “TEST” 

button tests if all display and audible alarm are in working order. The alarm ‘SILENCE/RESET” button is 
to quiet the audible alarm after it has sounded and to reset the alarm after alarm conditions has been 
cleared. The annunciator’s audible alarm is rated for 80 decibels at 3 feet away. The parameters for each 
gas can be programmed with three buttons on the back of the annunciator module.  

42.6.2 The repeat interval for the audible alarm will also be programmable to an interval beween 1 to 99 

minutes. Alarm will comply with the requirement of FCC part 15 ( 47 CFR Part 15). This requires that no 
harmful electromagnetic energy is being emitted from the alarm system that may affect other facility 
equipment in the area of installation. In turn, the alarm system is not affected by electromagnetic energy 
that may be emitted by other equipment in the area. Incorporated in each alarm is a Lon Works interface 
node to facilitate communication to the building management information center. Lonworks is a 
trademark of Echelon Corporation registered in the United States and other Countries. 

42.6.3 The box material is 16-gauge steel and equipped with mounting brackets that are adjustable up to a 

drywall thickness of 1-1/4” (32 mm). The Equipment will confirm to an ISO 13485 facility. Features x 
Complies with NFPA 99 & FCC Part 15. x High visibility LED readouts x Circuitry allows for Normally Open 
or Normally Closed. x Adjustable audible alarm repeat (from 1 to 99 minutes) x Can be interfaced with 
LonWorks. x Knockout for conduit installation. UL listed 

42.6.4  Area Gas Alarm:  The medical gas central alarms should be capable of monitoring a maximum of 6 

medical gas services by means of pressure sensors which detect deviations from the normal operating 
limits of either pressure or medical vacuum. The area alarm should have a digital display of pressures. 
The medical gas area alarm Should fully satisfy the international standard. Each gas service should be 
displayed by coloured LED's to show 'Normal' (green), 'Low' and 'High Pressure' (red) conditions. Medical 
vacuum systems Should be displayed in the 'Normal' (green) and 'Low Vacuum' (red) conditions only. 
Failure indicators Should be displayed by flashing lights and normal indications Should be steady. An 
audible warning should sound simultaneously with any failure indication and a mute Facility should be 
provided. Following a mute selection, the audible Should resound after approximately 15 minutes, or 
should operate simultaneously should a further alarm condition occur. A maintenance ‘Mute' switch 
Should be provided internally to the panel for use during maintenance which results in prolonged pipeline 
or plant shutdown. This facility should automatically reset when the gas service returns to normal. The 
alarm panel should have a 'test' facility to prove the integrity of the internal circuits, LED's and audible 
warning. The alarm panel Should incorporate a volt free normally closed relay to allow for 
interconnection to either a medical gas central alarm system or an event recording circuit of a building 
management system. The alarm should be microprocessor based with individual microprocessor on each 
module. Should provide interface to Gas Delivery Management System. The following configuration 
should be used: x 2 Gas Services ( O2 &Vac) x 3 Gas Services ( O2, Vac, Air 4) x 4 Gas Services (O2, 
Vac, Air4, Air7)x 5/6 Gas Services (O2, Vac, N2O, Air 4, Air 7, AGSS) 

42.7 
Area Valve Service Unit:  It should be wall mounted, Aluminum box with lockable front glass panel 
having ball type valves with PTFE seat, Brass body with Nickel plating valves having quarter turn handle 
opening. Sizes suitable for 12mm OD copper pipe to 22 mm OD copper pipes should have screItd ends 
should have brass adopter suitable for copper pipe these valves should be manufactured by an ISO 9001 
certified company. The following configuration should be used: x 2 Gas Services ( O2 &Vac) x 3 Gas 
Services ( O2, Vac, Air 4) x 4 Gas Services (O2, Vac, Air4, Air7) x 5/6 Gas Services (O2, Vac, N2O, Air 4, 
Air 7, AGSS 
 

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 443 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

42.8 
Line Isolation Valve:  The valve should have a bronze body, and a blowout proof stem. The valve ball 
should be bronze chrome plated, and the seats and packing should be Teflon (PTFE). Each valve in valve 
box should have a pressure rating of 600 psig, meet NFPA standard or HTM 2022 and be hydrostatically 
tested. Type “K” copper pipe extensions that are cleaned for medical gas service should be fitted into 
each side of the valve. A gauge port should be drilled into one of the pipe extensions for the purpose of 
inserting a gauge. The gauges should have a 2” (50 mm) dial, be ASME B40.1 Grade B. The valve 
assembly should be plugged or capped to prevent contamination. 

42.9 
Gas Outlets Points /Terminal Units with probe points : Imported for O2, N2O, C. Air (4 & 7bar) 
Vacuum & AGSS: The outlets should be UL Listed/CE Marked as per Medical Device, NFPA complaint, 
with the notified body number specified. Cleaned for medical gas service and be pressure tested. Each 
outlet should have less than 3 psi (21KPa) pressure drop through the outlet @ 120 1/min.and 50 psig 
(345KPa) inlet pressure. For outlets providing positive pressure gas, the outlet should be equipped with a 
primary and secondary check valve should be rated for 200 psi allowing the primary check valve to be 
removed for services without isolating the entire zone. The wall outlets should have a gas specific back 
body with steel mounting plate, which allows outlets to be ganged together with a center line spacing of 
5” (127mm). Each back body should be equipped with a 6-1/2” (165mm) length type “K” copper pipe 
stub which is brazed to the outlet body. The outside diameter of the copper pipe stub should be 1/2"             
( 12.7mm). The inlet pipe can be swiveled 360 degrees for ease of installation. Outlet bodies should be 
gas specific by means of a gas assembly only with the specific matching gas back body, preventing 
interchangeability of gas services. 

42.9.1 The latch-valve assembly, which by means of color coding and wording, should identify the specific 

medical gas service provided by the outlet and should accept only PB type gas specific adapters. For 
aesthetic appeal each outlet should include a one-piece ivory trim plate. The wall outlet can 
accommodate various finished wall thickness from 3/8” (10mm) to 1-1/4” (32mm). Equipment should be 
manufactured in an ISO 13485 registered.  

42.10 Oxygen Flow meter with Humidifier Bottle: Back Pressure Compensated flow meter should be of accurate 

gas flow measurement with control within a range of 0 – 15 LPM. (calibration within ±10%).  It should 
meet strict precision and durability standard. The flow meter body should be made of brass chrome 
plated materials. The flow tube and shroud components should be made of clear, impact resistant 
polycarbonate. The flow tube should have large and expanded 0-5 lpm range for improved readability at 
low flows. The flow tube and shroud components should be made of good quality plastic. It Should be 
supplied with plastic transparent reusable humidifier bottle. 

42.11  Theatre Suction unit:  I t should be trolley mounted. The unit should include one regulator having 

gauge and mounted on the trolley stand. The unit should consist of two reusable 2000ml shatter 
resistant bottle, each made ofpolycarbonate material and fully autoclavable at 121degree Centigrade A 
vacuum regulator with instant ON/OFF switch and a three-way selector switch with facility to operate 
either left, right or both All the above items should be mounted on a trolley having free moving castor 
wheels. Should be supplied with suitable connector probe to match with Vacuum outlets. 

42.12  Ward Vacuum Unit:  T he vacuum unit should include vacuum regulator along with 0 - 760mm of Hg 

vacuum gauge of 2 " size dial, 600 ml capacity reusable plastic collection bottle with overflow safety trap 
with plastic slide wall mountedtype. Should be of light weight and compact Should have a 600 ml. 
reusable collection jar, made of unbreakable poly carbonate /poly sulfone material and fully autoclavable 
at 121 degree centigrade. Should have wall bracket for mounting the jar assembly on the wall. The 
vacuum regulator with instant ON / OFF switch should be infinitely adjustable and with vacuum gauge 
which will indicate suction supplied by the regulator. Safety trap must be provided inside the jar to 
safeguard the regulator from overflowing. Should be supplied with suitable connector probe to match 
with Vacuum outlets. 

42.13 Vacuum System: It will provide two vacuum pumps, air cooled type, Model V X 255 (Ingersoll Rand 

make), each pump having piston displacement of 60 Cfm. Free Air delivery to suction approx. 90% of 
P.D., maximum working pressure 29" of Hg or 730mm of Hg, single stage - twin cylinder, fitted with M.S. 
channel frame complete with V-Belt drive, belt guard etc. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 444 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

42.14  Compressed Air System:  The unit should have Duplex stationary air cooled silenced (Reciprocating) Oil-

Free Air Compressor with critical maintenance free technology each having 57.18 scfm capacity. 

42.15 Compressed Air Filtration System: One set of Double – stage filter should be provided as follows: The 

filters should be made of die cast aluminum housing with epoxy powder paint on the outside and 
anodizedsurface treatment inside to prevent corrosion and ensure extra-long life. The filters should have 
maximum contaminant removal efficiency with minimum pressure drop. Total 2 stages of filters should 
be used (stage 1 & 2 should installed before the desiccant dryer and balance two stages after it as 
mentioned below :  

 
Stage – 1 : Coalescing filters for general purpose protection, removing liquid water and oil 
aerosol to 0.1mgcum.(0.1 ppm) and particles down to 1 micron. Particulate filters for dust 
protection, removing particles down to 1 micron  

 
Stage –2 : high efficiency coalescing filters, removing liquid water and oil aerosol to 0.01 
mg/cu.m (0.01 ppm) and particles down to 0.01 micron 

42.16   Anesthesia Gas Scavanging System :  The unit furnished should be a standard catalog item of the 

supplier regularly engaged in the business of providing packaged systems for hospitals and laboratories 
and would meet and exceed the requirements of HTM-2022, C11, BS 6834:1997 and BS EN 737.2. 
Anaesthetic Gas Scavenging System is fully automatic in operation and supplied as a complete factory 
tested package, which can be easily tailored to meet specific customer requirement. The System offers 
high quality reliable air cooled, oil free side channel exhausters as standard. Vacuum control valve fitted 
to automatically regulate vacuum within the pipeline System available as standard in all voltage and 
frequent options to sui international electrical standards, which ensures trouble free installation and 
reliable operation.  

42.16.1 
The vacuum system should be guaranteed in writing by the manufacturerfor a period of 36 
months from the date of start-up or 24 months from the date of shipment (whichever comes first) 
against defects in design, materials, or construction. The service of a factory trained representative 
should be made available at the job site to check installation, start-up and instruct operating personnel in 
the proper operation and maintenance. 

42.16.2 
It shall have Very quite operation which allows installation in noise sensitive areas. Available 
floor standing or wall mounted. Supplied in package form with minimum space requirements. Includes 
inlet and exhaust silencer & High quality paint finish, in a choice of BS and RAL colours. Supplied with 
integral control panels with all necessary starters and indicators. Provided complete with all necessary 
interconnecting wiring and pipe work. Every machine is fully tested prior to dispatch, Condensation traps 
with isolation valves fitted to pump exhausts & Remote control starter panels. 

42.17 High Pressure Tube: Tubing should be colour coded throughout their length. All hoses shall incorporate 

in antistatic inner core. 

42.18 Low Pressure Rubber Tube: Duct / 3 Channel Bed Head Panel / Bed Head Unit of 1800mm:  

42.18.1 
To ensure safe and easy access to services and equipment for the medical staff in critical care 
environment at the point of care, Bed Head Panels are made from high quality extrusion and are 
designed to provide plenty of capacity, which means they can accommodate all the electrics, gases, data 
and other media for critical care areas. It shall be supplied in compliance with the 93/42/CE regulation 
and Quality standards ISO 13485. The three duct /3 channel Bed head panel is made from modular 
profiles which shall be constructed from extruded aluminum alloy 6063 Temper T6. The Bed Head must 
have a DIN Rail throughout the length of the Bed head Panel.  

42.18.2 
The Rail should have strength to be capable to support various accessories available at the 
hospital such as monitors, IV stand etc. The rail section shall be fixed directly to the wall to ensure the 
load on the rail is well supported. The Bed head panel shall have 3 separate ducts to ensure that services 
(Electric 220V, Low Voltage / Data, Medical Gases) are properly isolated from each other.  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 445 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

42.18.3 
Duct for Medical Gas Terminals and associated pipeline. BS EN 13348 Medical Grade pipe should 
be used. Each gas outlet of same gas should be brazed together and a single pipe for each gas type 
should either come out from back of the bed head unit OR side of bed head panel. The pipe should be 
properly labelled to avoid any cross connection at site. Duct for Electrical Services (220V); all electrical 
switch sockets shall be prewired with at least 2.5mm copper wire.  

42.18.4 
All electrical wires must terminate in a single connector for connecting it to external power 
supply. Duct for Low Voltage / Data; Data or low voltage services shall be accommodated in a separate 
duct. RJ 45/ RJ 11 connection to be provided. Provision for Nurse Call system by providing cut out on the 
top plate to be provided. Inbuilt lighting shall be in a separate section and NOT in any of the 3 service 
ducts. Each Duct shall have a top profile which shall be removable to allow access to the service 
sections.  

42.18.5 
All profiles except Top profile shall be Anodized aluminum finish with 10 Electrical Sockets 
antibacterial. 1 Data Socket. 1 Telephone Socket and Provision for 6 Gas Outlet Points. 

43 
LAUNDRY:  Refer relevant items of Schedule ‘A’ in conjunction with manufracturers instructions.  

43.1 
 Barrier WASHER EXTRACTOR (CE certified)2 x18 Kg Description: The washer should be two door 
(Loading & Unloading), model having front loading and unloading of the washed garments shall be done 
from the other side (Unloading door) soft mount type with suspended construction allowing a 300G force 
extraction to save energy during the drying process. The machine should be robust frame made of hot 
dip galvanized steel, casing and panels made of galvanized and coated steel plate, External Doors with 
Horizontal hinges, door opening upwards The Barrier Washer ensures that any wash program is 
performed in full before it allows unloading on the clean side. No fast forward No Error No power failure 
No emergency stop is allowed. If any of the above happen, the machine only opens on the dirty side to 
ensure that linen has been properly washed and disinfected before unloading it on the clean side.  

43.1.1 It should have following features:  

 
x AS – Automatic Savings and Power Balance  
 
x RPM not less than 860 RPM x G‐Force Not less than 300 G force  
 
x Loading Capacity (18 Kg x 2 nos.)  
 
x Fully automatic microprocessor control  
 
x Barrier washer extractor with two doors.  
 
x Automatic Inner drum positioning in loading and unloading position with safe ergonomic door lock. 
Automatic opening of inner drum door by pneumatic jack helps in power and time savings  
 
x Drum mounted on both sides with V Belt drive with air cushion suspension for minimum vibration and 
smooth operation.  
 
x Variable frequency drive  
 
x 4 compartment detergent dispensers for automatic dosing  
 
x Outer Drum and Inner Cylinder must be of SSǦ 304 Stainless steel  
 
x All wet materials and components must be of SSǦ 304 Stainless steel  
 
x Machine should control the hygiene process and system to restrict bypass of wash programs.  
 
x Motor rating max 2.3 KW or as per OEM.  
 
x Water consumption –Cold‐12.3ltrs/KG Hot‐3.2ltrs/KG or as per OEM. 
43.2 
DRYING TUMBLER: Capacity – 20KG ELECTRIC/LPG/Natural Gas heated Heavy duty, Front Loading, Cool 
down Feature, Auto‐timed, Auto‐reversible, Dual Motor drive, Open Pocket & Front display, the dryer 
should be with temperature control system. For long service life, the drum suspension should have 
sealed self‐lubrication bearings.  

 
x Control – Microprocessor with adjustable parameters such as temperature, program and cool down 
time. And also the feature to control the moisture control in the dryer.  
 
x Temperature Controller ‐ Auto digital control.  
 
x Time Controller‐ Auto digital control for drying and cooling.  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 446 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

 
x Software ‐for the minimization of the cost and maximization of the uptime of the equipment and would 
ensure the following (running hours, idle time, consumption figures, machine usage, total consumption, 
cost calculation etc.) ‐ process validation (print of receipt) ‐ maintenance intervals (actions are logged) ‐ 
error alerts (recommend actions).  
 
x Door opening it should be large for easy loading and unloading.  
 
x Inner Drum– Should be made of Stainless steel AISI‐304 The drum should be fitted with 4 lifters. The 
diameter of the perforation holes should be 8 mm for better perforation and fast drying with 2 loads per 
hour.  
 
x Residual moisture control feature for the continuous measurement for the garments in the cycle to 
prevent over drying and thus saving energy and time.  
 
x Safety features: The tumble dryer should be equipped with overheating protection and a temperature 
sensor that turns off the heat if the airflow is clogged.  
 
x Installation: The tumble dryer should be having design for quick and simple installation by using the 
adjustable levelling feet. Only one external connection for electricity, gas, steam and exhaust should be 
required.  
 
x Door Lock: The dryer should have a safety function or feature, which means the dryer should stop in 
case the door is opened during operation.  
 
x Transmission: The transmission should have pulley and belt drive. There should be no x Gear boxes , 
clutches or gear reducers. The transmission should have a mechanical device for tightening and 
loosening the drive belt.  
 
x Door ‐ Made of die pressed Stainless steel 304 quality, Toughened glass window , SS door latch/handle 
and interlock for safety.  
 
x Door Opening ‐ 580 mm Ø (Minimum) x Basket Volume‐ 360Ltrs. (Minimum)  
 
x Suction Blower‐ Heavy Duty Centrifugal Suction Blower and dynamically balanced  
 
x Lint Screen ‐ Self cleaning lint screen, facility of cleaning should be through front door x Electric Load – 
1.0 Kw x Heating: LPG/ Natural Gas x Electric supply– 220‐240V, 3Ø, AC, 50hz. 
 

43.3 
VACUUM FINISHING TABLE (CE certified) ‐ 2 Nos. It should have following features:  

 
o Table Top Size 1500mm X 900mm  
 
o Table top padded with heat resistant material like Silicon etc.  
 
o Powerful suction o Vacuum unit operated by Pedal  
 
o Heavy Duty Motor of 0.4 KW for centrifugal blower  
 
o MOC – Mild steel plate of 18 gauge and powder coated paint with antirust primer coated 

 

43.4    STEAM BOILER WITH 2 IRONS: Steam Boiler with 2 outlets and including 2 steam irons. the boiler must 

have safety features: `Dual Thermostat in series at a differential temperature setting of 3 degrees C 
Pressure Switch, Audio (buzzer) Visual Alarm (lamp) for any safety activated Safety valve, Low water 
indicator, Pressure Gauge, Water level gauge Inbuilt electrical switches are covered for shock protection 
of wet hands Superior metallurgy of Electrical Elements for Energy Efficiency and Long Life. 

43.5 
Boiler Specifications ‐ On caster wheels - Stainless Steel Boiler - Stainless Steel Water Tank - 4kW boiler - 
Automatic pump for water refill ‐Includes 2 irons, 800W each, with cable holder rods and iron rest mats 
400V 3N 50Hz ‐Steam Irons 2 numbers with 800 W heating element each Pump 0.45 kW 3 bar pressure. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 447 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
43.6 
FLATWORK IRONER Roller Heated, Gas Heated: Suitable for rapid ironing of linen like Bed sheets, Pillow 
cover or flat sheet etc Roller Diameter‐325mm‐2065 mm length, Front feed and Front Return Type, 
Variable Speed Control, Powder coated outer body Auto timed and Auto temperature control.  

43.6.1 Roller ‐ Made of Stainless Steel‐304. Machined with perforations throughout the length and periphery for 

moisture suction. Roller should run on self aligning ball bearings.  

43.6.2 No. of Rollers‐ 1 (One). Roller Diameter ‐325mm and Length ‐ 2065mm x Control: Electronic Control Panel. 

Safety –Finger Guard Protection and Start and stop of the machine with emergency switch. Automatic 
stopping of the machine for Finger guard. Padding‐ pressure roll with a padding & tightener springs. 
Electric Load Should not exceed – 0.5 Kw. Electric supply‐ 415V, 3AC, 50hz ,40AMPERE. Heating ‐ 
LPG/PNG 25KW x Ironing Speed in meter per minute‐ 0.5‐5.5. 

43.7 
WET LINEN TROLLEY: Capacity 50 Kg : The base frame of the trolley shall be in Stainless Steel 
construction with all welded joints ground & smooth finished out of heavy duty Stainless Steel tubes and 
bars. The trolley shall be fitted with at least 3 Nos. Stainless Steel shelves (2Ǧ shelves removable). The 
base frame shall be supported on 4 Nos. castor wheels min. 75 mm size of swivelling type. 

43.8 
MOBILE TABLE: Capacity 50 Kg : The rolling table shall be specially designed for carrying rolling and 
folding of linen in the laundry. The frame of the table shall be fabricated out of Stainless Steel tubes and 
bars supported on 4 Nos. castors min. 75 mm size swiveling type. The table top shall be of polished 
Stainless steel with smoothly. The under shelf of the trolley shall be made of Stainless steel. Dimension‐ 
2Mtr/700mm o Height of the table top should be 1.2 mtr. 

43.9 
INDUSTRIAL WEIGHING MACHINE of Capacity 100 Kg: The weighing machine shall be heavy duty platform 
type with dial type weight indication. The platform for placement of buckets/goods for weighing shall be 
with steel casting with adjusting lever mechanism and knob for adjustment of error in machine. 

43.10 All of the above Laundry equipments must be CE certified The above listed are the minimum requirement 

for in house laundry. In addition to the above equipment’s, if need arises for any other equipments or if 
the contractor feels necessary to include any other equipment then he may do so without any financial 
implications to the department. 

44.     CCTV:  Refer relevant items of Schedule ‘A’ in conjunction with manufracturers instructions.  

44.1 GENERAL: Provide a complete video surveillance and management system, including engineering, 

components, installation and commissioning.  

44.2   SUBMITTALS:  

(a) Manufacturer’s Product Data: Submit manufacturer’s data sheets indicating systems and 
components proposed with property details like physical, mechanical, electrical, thermal along 
with instruction/Installation manuals & Operational maintenance Manuals.  

(b) Shop Drawings: Submit complete shop drawings including connection diagrams for 
interfacing equipment, list of connected equipment, and locations for major equipment 
components.  

(c) Product /Material certifications from relevant authorities, manufacturers, testing labs etc as 
and where required as per the tender specifications.  

(d) List of recommended & mandatory spares and consumables.  

(e) Manufacturer’s Authorization Letter: This document certifies that company’s personnel are 
competent in the field of sales, installation, commissioning and maintenance of OEM’s Products 
and Systems and will ensure that their staffs are continually updated on training on new 
products and technology as they are introduced by OEM.  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 448 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
44.4  
QUALITY ASSURANCE:  

(a) Original Equipment Manufacturer: Minimum ten years experience in manufacturing and 
maintaining Video & Security management systems. O.E.M. company should be registered & 
should have service centre in INDIA. Manufacturer shall provide technical assistance and support 
on the product & solution.  

(b) Installer: Minimum two years experience installing similar systems in India, and acceptable to 
the manufacturer of the video management system.  

(c) Power Requirements: Components shall have the following electrical specifications: 100‐240 
VAC (50 Hz).  

44.5   DELIVERY, STORAGE, AND HANDLINGA. Deliver materials in manufacturer’s labeled packages. Store and 

handle in accordance with manufacturer’s requirements, in a facility with environmental conditions within 
recommended limits.  

44.6    PRODUCTS OBJECTIVE: To achieve an Enterprise Level Surveillance & Security System. The vendor shall 

supply and commission an IP based CCTV system with the objective to provide high degree of 
surveillance system for the entire site. The purpose is to monitor & supervise the entire area for security 
purpose, as well as record and inform officials on unwanted, untoward incidents. The hardware required 
for the system including servers, workstations, monitors, networking components, cables, connectors, 
conduits, power supplies etc. will be in vendor’s scope. It will be the responsibility of the 
vendor/Contractor to make the entire system fully functional as per the specifications. Vendor/Contractor 
shall consider any equipment/devices required to make the system functional if not mentioned herewith. 
Further, the CCTV system shall be seamlessly integrated with other security systems such as the Access 
Control Systems & Intrusion Alarm System. Also, All the systems should be from a single vendor.  

44.7 
SCOPE OF WORK The scope of work under this tender shall consist of design, supply, installation, 
testing, training & handing over of all materials, equipment, hardware, software applications and 
necessary workmanship to commission said system with all the required components strictly as per the 
enclosed tender specifications, design details. The scope also includes the supply, Installation & 
commissioning of any material or equipment including civil works that are not specifically mentioned in 
the specification.  

44.8 
SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE: Video Management System (VMS) shall be a fully digital IP‐based video 
surveillance system that brings together in one system a network video recorder (NVR) with unlimited 
storage capacity. It shall provide an option for integration onto the Access Control System and Intrusion 
Detection System. As a software‐based enterpriselevel video and data management system, VMS shall 
provide a single GUI that monitors, records, and offers functionality to deliver the timely, accurate 
information required for effectively responding to any challenge. VMS shall be a fully scalable 
enterpriseclass media management system. This advanced network‐based system architecture enables 
simultaneous live monitoring from multiple stations and is easily configurable for storage both on and off 
site. The software can be configured to store and to view images captured by one camera or thousands 
of cameras and monitor connections across an unrestricted number of servers. VMS can be designed to 
effectively integrate with access control, intrusion detection system and video equipment including NVRs, 
keyboards, and cameras to leverage and protect investments in legacy infrastructure and equipment.  

44.9 
SYSTEM COMPONENTS  

 
A. VMS‐Client Application shall provide live video view, various video playback support, historical video 
search and playback, PTZ Controls, alarm management, EMap integration and front end control features 
to an operator. Client Application shall also able to manage & control all devices depending on the user 
access privileges. System should support virtually unlimited VMS Clients.  

 
 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 449 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
 
B. VMS Database Server contain a web based data management center includes user management, 
facility management system logs etc. and event & control service which receives and controls events and 
commands of various formats via different communication modes, integrating video, access & intrusion 
(alarm) devices. The Primary Database Server shall able to support either upto 500 cameras/server or a 
combination of 300 cameras with 200 access readers and 200 intrusion alarm zones per server or any 
such combination of various front end devices. However, the system should be capable to expand 
virtually upto unlimited number of cameras, access & intrusion points by incorporating multiple servers to 
make a complete enterprise security systems.  

 
C. Network Video Recorder (NVR) shall able to receive and store videos from various front end devices 
and forward to various decoders, clients applications connected to the enterprise security system; 
ensuring a smooth transmission when transmitting mass videos in various bandwidth levels. Each NVR 
server shall able to support upto 340mbps data throughput which can take upto 128 cameras recording 
@ D1 resolution with 40 channels playback at real time simultaneously. Each NVR shall be provided with 
a storage chassis which should able to expand upto 32TB and can be further expanded upto 96TB by 
incorporating the additional storage chassis. S 

44.10 SYSTEM COMPONENT DESCRIPTION & INTEGRATION System shall support integration of various 

system components as detailed below as a minimum to create an enterprise level Security Management 
System.  

 
A. Recorders: Video Management System (VMS) shall support integration with digital and network video 
recorders (NVRs). VMS shall have the ability to access and manage necessary functions of the recording 
devices through the VMS client interface, such as live video, recorded video, playback, camera 
configuration, PTZ control and other associated functions. The system shall support 128 Channel NVR at 
25 fps @ D1 resolutions as a minimum.  

 
B. Cameras: VMS shall be able to support Dome, Bullet and PTZ cameras for its functionality.  

 
C. VMS shall have the capability to integrate with Access control and Intrusion systems in future.  

44.11 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS  

 
A. VMS shall provide a single graphical user interface (GUI) to monitor, control and administer digital 
video surveillance equipment from multiple systems and platforms; Access Control & Intrusion Detection 
System.  

 
B. All the Alarms from all the interfaces i.e CCTV; Access Control & Intrusion Detection shall be reported 
into a single GUI.  

 
C. VMS shall be configured to store and view images captured by one camera or numerous cameras and 
monitor connections across an unrestricted number of servers.  

 
D. All the Software & hardware equipments for CCTV, Access Control & Intrusion Detection Systems shall 
be of same make/manufacturer. 

44.12 VMS SOFTWARE FEATURES: The VMS application software shall have following major features:  

 
A. Scalability: System shall be scalable to enterprise level system so that increase in the number of 
cameras; number of servers & number of Clients shall not affect the currently running system operations 
& functionality.  

 
1. Architecture: Multi‐location: System shall work on an enterprise class environment over the TCP/IP 
network. The system shall be designed on central site connected with multiple remote sites along with 
the following required conditions / aspects:  

 
 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 450 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
 
B. System shall be capable of local recording, local monitoring and video management at each local site. 
The system ideally shall not transmit any video through remote VMS Database Server (to optimize the 
WAN bandwidth) for any local access to videos (LIVE and recorded). System shall be capable of Video 
monitoring (LIVE / Recorded), system & user management through a master central location.  

 
x The system shall be designed & proposed in a way that in the event of connection failure between 
central VMS Database Server & local location, system shall continue to work & deliver the key functions 
at local site i.e. local monitoring and local recording.  

 
C. Open Standard Support: VMS Software shall be ONVIF compliantso thatit can integrate with multiple 
digital IP cameras, multiple digital and network video recording devices, multiple video matrix switchers 
and matrix keyboards.  

 
D. System Integration: System shall have Integration capabilities with electronic access control system, 
Intrusion detection systems. Integration capabilities of the system shall be measured on below 
mentioned aspects as a minimum:  

 
VMS shall support integration with Access Control & Intrusion Detection System. It shall support real 
time linkage of digital video clips to their associated alarms from the access control & intrusion alarm 
system. System Administrators shall configure video segments by specifying pre‐ and post‐ alarm time 
marks, then link those defined video segments to specific alarms. The software shall provide at least 10 
minutes of tagged pre and post activity recording per event. In an event of an alarm generated by 
Access Controller or Intrusion Detection System the software shall ensure that the operator is 
automatically provided with the CCTV video from the designated camera to view the alarm location as 
soon as the alarm is received, allowing the operator to visually assess the event and also providing 
continuous recording. The software shall also automatically focus the nearest PTZ cameras to view to the 
point of alarm. In an event of a card being shown to a card reader (where there is camera located near 
the door), the system shall capture a video clip containing at least 2 minutes before the card swipe, 
during card swipe event & 2 minutes after card swipe and bundle them together & tag them along with 
the card event database. 

 
 When the card event is retrieved then it should be possible to play the associated video clip of that 
particular Event/Alarm. VMS shall support defining multiple rule logics which can be assigned to any 
alarm to run automatically when those alarms received in the system. There shall not be any limitation in 
defining such rule logic. Example of such rule is “in case there is an alarm received from a zone of 
Intrusion Detection System, then specific Camera assigned to that Zones shall automatically Pop up on 
the VMS‐ Client GUI and start recording based on the Pre & Post record time defined during the 
configuration and defined set of Access Controlled doorsshall go into Locked/Unlocked state as defined. 

 
 VMS shall support operation from Central consol but not limited as defined below:‐ Intrusion Alarm 
integration operation: x Arm, disarm, bypass status shall be displayed on VMS‐Client machine. x Zones 
can be sorted by status. x Arm, disarm, bypass operation can be implemented to all the zones. Access 
Control Integration Operation: x User name, card No., card type, privilege and reader No. can be gained 
upon swiping card. x Door control can be fulfilled manually or automatically assigned in rule defined in 
the system. x Above information shall be able to be logged in system database.  

 
E. Service Stability: VMS shall integrate with sandbox framework to ensure crash of server will not result 
in service crash. It will also try to restart a crashed server to increase system accessibility and stability.  

 
F. Compression Techniques: System shall use various compression techniques simultaneously to utilize 
storage and network bandwidth effectively. Video compression techniques shall including H.264, MPEG‐4 
and M‐JPEG as minimum.  

 
G. Multi Operations: Managing pentaplex user operations of attached recording devices simultaneously, 
including live viewing, recording, playback, and handling the exchange of data between the server and a 
remote workstation.  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 451 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

H. Live View: Live viewing of up to 64 cameras on a single VMS‐Client up to D1 resolution. VMS‐Client 
application shall have capability to connect to 4 monitors & 16 cameras can be viewed on one Monitor.  

 
I. Alarm Management: System shall receive alarms & eventsfrom multiple video, access and alarm 
devices. It shall provide capability of Alarm & event viewing, management and interlocking. Alarm 
interlock logic shall reside in VMS Server which will trigger device to execute preset operations on 
receiving of an alarm.  

 
J. Reports: Log Report shall be used to search the device alarm events, device operations, user login, 
and web operation. It shall also be used to set queries to get results quickly. Log reports shall be 
exported in XML, CSV, TIFF, PDF, Web Archive and Excel file formats.  

 
K. Search: System shall manage investigation, post‐recording motion detection, motion detection‐based 
recording, Alarm (from any of integrated solution CCTV, Access Control and Intrusion Detection) Based 
recording and search tools with advanced search capabilities of the recording devices.  

 
L. User Rights: System shall provide multi‐level user access rightsfor viewing and managing access to the 
recorder functions. The user level shall range from 0 to 255; the bigger the number, the higher the 
control priority is.  

 
M. Recording Modes: System shall support recording modes of continuous, scheduled, manual, event 
and alarm‐based recording.  

 
N. Network: System shall support for both multicast and unicast network topologies and communication 
protocols.  

 
O. Rule engine: This capability shall allow for custom scripts and to provide both customization and third 
party integration. Rules Engine Service shall provide functions such as rules analysis, state monitoring 
and rules management. By way of logical programming for various devices and event alarms in graphical 
editing interface, Rules Engine Service shall perform automatic execution of rules when emergency 
occurs. The visual dynamic user interface shall make it easy to acknowledge alarm circumstances and 
allows prompt response in case on emergency.  

 
P. Client Application: VMS shall provide at least 20 Client licenses as inbuilt. System shall provide unified 
VMS‐Client login to users. User shall be able to login from any PC loaded with VMS‐Client application. 
User shall have the option of two modes of user logins: i. Online login: User shall be able to login when 
at least one VMS service online. ii. Offline login: User shall be able to login when there is no VMS service 
online after user at least success one-time online login.  

 
Q. Hardware: System shall utilize off‐the‐shelf computer workstations, servers, networking and storage 
equipment. No proprietary hardware shall be acceptable 

44.13 
Vedio Management System (VMS ) :  OPERATOR FEATURES: VMS shall provide the following 
operator functions: 

 
A. Configuration: The operator (with Administrator privileges) shall have the option to configure the 
system. It shall support live updates of all configurations. The configurations shall provide the option to 
add/edit/delete recorders, cameras, switchers, keyboards, users and roles, sites, recording rule, rule 
engine service etc. Configuration of video recording trigger service and device recovery service 
parameter shall be basic feature of VMS.  

 
B. Event & Control Service Configuration: EC service integrates with sandbox framework to ensure crash 
of specified device adapter will not result in service crash. EC service will also try to restart a crashed 
adapter to increase system accessibility and stability Option to configure Event & Control Service. The 
following configurations shall be possible: i. Supported devices. ii. Alarm filter mechanism. iii. Judgment 
mechanism for control priority iv. Mechanism for cascading connections of Event & Control services.  

 
C. Data Dynamic Synchronization: The configuration data in VMS shall be able to synchronous to all 
connected VMS‐Clients and NVR services.  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 452 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
 
D. Log Report: The operator shall be able to view following log reports: a. Device alarm log report. b. 
Device operation log report. c. User login log report. d. Web operation log report.  

 
E. Disaster Recovery, Redundancy and Backup Service: Disaster Recovery and Backup Service shall 
provide the following operator functions:  

 
a. This backup system shall supervise and backup the center contents dynamically. Once there is an 
accident, the system can switch to the backup system automatically, which replaces the original center 
and continues the work. Disaster Recovery and Backup Service can backup for Event Control Service, 
Video Trigger Service and Rule Engine Service.  

 
b. Redundant Recording: VMS shall support failover or redundant capabilities of the Recording device(s) 
as a minimum. N+1 redundancy for recording device(s) shall ensure system availability in the event of 
main recording device failure or network failure of the main recording device. 

44.13.1 VMS‐CLIENT FEATURES: VMS‐Client Application shall have below mentioned features:  

 
A. Live View: Main video viewing screen capable of showing 1, 4, 9, 16 and other customized split layout 
of live or recorded video. Standard presets may be customized to the user preferences.  

 
B. Scenarios: Current view can be saved as scenario and allowing the user to restore this view at any 
later point in time. These scenarios shall be modified, overwrite or deleted as and when required.  

 
C. Drag and Drop: VMS‐Client application shall provide drag and drop functionality. Particular video 
device can be dragged onto main video viewing screen to view live video.  

 
D. Favorites: VMS‐Client application shall have feature to save favorites, where user can create a 
device/scenario folder and drag devices/scenarios into it so that these can be quickly accessed.  

 
E. Patrol: VMS‐Client application shall provide user the capability of configuring and running video patrol 
sequences to automatically play videos of multiple channels in specified windows by turns. A patrol shall 
include several scenarios and a scenario includes several video channels.  

 
F. PTZ Control: Support both analog and digital PTZ through GUI and the keyboard. PTZ control shall be 
used for adjusting PTZ movement and setting the focus, aperture and preset bit of the camera.  

 
G. Snapshot: Capable of capturing snapshot of live video and allowing user to export snapshot. Snapshot 
tool shall be available in video window itself. Only the authorized users shall have snapshot functionality. 

 
 H. Video Export: VMS‐Client shall have capability of download and export recorded video from 
recorders. Exported video clip shall be in OEM’s native format to ensure data integrity. Download link to 
the player shall be provided with video exported.  

 
I. Playback: VMS‐Client shall be able to playback recorded video from recorders. Different playback 
modes shall be there as 8x, 16x, 32x, 64x, frame by frame and backward playback.  

 
J. Instant Playback: Allow the user to view and save 30sec ago instant playback for any playing live 
video. It shall be used for monitoring emergent situation. This function shall be enabled by default, if 
required, user may disable this function. 

 
 K. Recording: Allows the user to initiate recording through GUI. Recording can be initiated remotely on 
NVR and locally on VMS‐Client PC.  

 
L. Alarm Management: Capability of complete alarm management for the alarms coming from recorders, 
switchers, intrusion detection systems and access control systems. Alarm Management shall be based on 
below mentioned aspects:  

 
 
i. User shall get the pop‐up message for response plan upon receiving the alarm so that same 
response plan can be followed by each operator. 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 453 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
 
 
 ii. E‐mail notification can be sent out which shall include alarm information and User editable 
information along with individual alarm. One or multi receiver addresses and SMTP can be assigned for 
E‐Mail notification. M. E‐Maps: VMS‐Client shall have capability to upload GIS Map which shall support 
.shp, AutoCAD, bmp, jpg, png format file. These maps can be interlinked with 8 levels.  

 
M. Devices including cameras, access control readers and intrusion detectors shall be planted on maps. 
E‐map application shall have below mentioned functionalities: 

 
 
 i. Video verification can be displayed within 1 second after alarm is triggered.  

 
 
ii. Multi video verification (at least four) can be triggered by same alarm input.  

 
 
iii. Alarm can come from any kind of event notification which system can recognize.  

 
N. Surrounding Camera View: VMS‐Client application shall have facility of surrounding camera view. It 
shall support setting presets in surrounding cameras. i. In a surround view, video from a specific device 
shall be playing in the centre and the other surround videos will be from surrounding video devices. Once 
the object moves to some other camera’s FOV, operator can pull that camera in the center and 
surrounding videos from the associated surrounding camera plays in the surround views. Every video 
device can be configured one surround view with related 12 surrounding cameras. There shall not be any 
limit in defining such surround views. ii. Surround video can be called through keyboard and VMS‐Client 
operation. iii. Surround video can be configured through web or VMS‐ Client.  

 
O. Alternate Camera View: For continuous monitoring, system shall have alternative view functionality. 
Every camera can be assigned an alternative view camera. If one camera is unavailable, operator can 
achieve alternative camera to get same/similar scene. i. Alternative view camera can be called through 
keyboard and VMS‐ Client operation. ii. Alternative view camera can be assigned through web 
configuration or through NVR‐Client.  

 
P. Operations: Option to perform various operations through context menu on a particular video 
(live/recorded/patrol). These operations shall include: Full screen, point and drag, enable square select, 
digital zoom, start recording, stop recording, take snapshot, show surrounding cameras, trigger 
alternative view.  

 
Q. Timeline Control: Ability to manage timeline control of the recording device, which provides camera 
recording statistics. Timeline control shall have following features: time slider, time search, time jump, 
play controls. Timeline control shall also include dedicated buttons for step reverse and step forward and 
keyboard shortcuts for playback operations.  

 
R. Keyboard Functionality: VMS‐Client shall be controllable by a keyboard controller connected to the 
VMS server and shall have following major features: Selecting layout, ending monitor commands, 
switching operations, PTZ control operations. PTZ control latency shall be less than 500ms  

 
S. Search: The search facility shall include search based on date and time, device type, trigger type, 
alarm, operator, location and site. The search facility shall be able to search records in specified 
recorder.  

 
T. Device and Service Status: VMS‐Client shall be capable to show the running status of Event & Control 
services, Rule Engine service and VMS site in bottom status bar. It shall also monitor connected devices 
status.  

 
U. Server Usage: VMS‐Client shall provide facility to view CPU, Memory and Network usage information. 

 

 

 

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 454 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
44.14 
NVR CAPABILITIES: NVR shall have below mentioned capabilities:  
 

A. Video Streaming: NVR shall relay the real‐time streaming to the VMS‐Client.  
 
B. Recording: NVR shall store the real‐time streaming for a certain period of time when it receives the 

storage command from Trigger Service. Each individual camera can be set a different preset recording 
frame rate. Camera recording frame rate will be changed to full frame rate upon motion detection or 
other alarm information (according to configuration).Frame rate change interval (from alarm received 
to recording frame rate change) shall be less than 1 second.  
 
C. Video playback and download: NVR shall allow the user to playback and download video records from 

NVR‐Client. It shall also allow the user to configure the storage locations.  
 
D. Pre‐alarm Recording: NVR shall be capable to cache the real‐time streaming for a certain time (no 

longer than 10 minutes). When there is an event or alarm triggering recording, prerecording can help 
trace the situation before the event or alarm occurs.  
 
E. Re‐Linking: NVR shall re‐link to disconnected front‐end devices. The following two conditions can result 

in re‐linking: i. If the NVR fails to link with the front‐end device for the first time, it will try to re‐link 
with the front‐end devices repeatedly; the maximum interval is 30 seconds for each try. ii. When the 
NVR succeeds in linking with the front‐end devices and is recording or relaying the streaming, if the bit 
rate from the device remains as “0”, it will start the re‐linking operation.  
 
F. Overwriting: NVR shall be capable to cycle overwrite video records. NVR supports the cycle overwrite in 

the following two situations: i. Delete the videos older than N days regularly. If the disk can store the 
videos for N days, at which point the NVR deletes video files older than N days according to the 
required video storage space after a certain capacity is filled. ii. Delete the oldest videos when the disk 
capacity is full.  
 
G. Device Status Monitoring: NVR allows the user to monitor the running status of NVR via GUI. The 

following health statuses need to be monitored: system overload (CPU, Network), storage getting full, 
hard disk error, data accumulation to an unstable level, temperature too high, power supply failure 
and fan failure. i. Health status abnormal shall be able to be reported out to VMS‐ Client as alarm 
information. ii. User shall be able to configure which alarm to be received The following status shall be 
provided: a. Total connected device number b. Working device number c. Receive BPS (KB/S) d. Relay 
device number e. Relay BPS (KB/S) f. Storage device g. Storage BPS (KB/S) h. Historical Relay number 
i. Historical Relay BPS (KB/S) j. Storage locations k. All space (MB) l. Remain space (MB)  
 
H. Remote Upgrade: NVR shall be able to be upgraded without sending device back to factory. It shall be 

remotely upgraded from VMS‐Client. 
 
44.15 
Cameras: The proposed system shall be able to support the below mentioned types of cameras and the 
specifications specified for each. 
 
 
A. Dome Cameras The dome camera should have the following:  
• 1/4” CMOS Image sensor  
• Minimum illumination of 0.1Lux  
• Enhanced function with BLC and alarm trigger for intelligent video motion detection  
• Shall support two‐way audio • Shall have option for local storage SDHC Card (Class 6 or above).  
• Shall support H.264, MPEG‐4, MJPEG simultaneous Triple‐Encoding  
• Power over Ethernet (PoE) and AC24V/DC12V Support  
• Should have a varifocal lens of 2.8 mm to 10.5 mm range  
• Shall be able to operate in the temperature range of ‐10°C to 50°C  
• Shall have the FCC and CE certifications  
• The camera should be ONVIF compliant  
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 455 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

B. Vandal Dome Cameras The Vandal Dome cameras shall have the following:  
• 1/4” CMOS Image sensor  
• Minimum illumination of 0.1 lux  
• Enhanced function with BLC and alarm trigger for intelligent video motion detection  
• Should support H.264, MPEG‐4, MJPEG simultaneous Triple‐Encoding  
• Power over Ethernet (PoE) and AC24V/DC12V Support  
• The camera to have IP66 Rating, weather and vandal proof casing  
• The camera should support two‐way audio  
• Should support local storage SDHC Card (Class 6 or above).  
• Should have a varifocal lens of 2.8~10.5mm  
• The camera should have CE and FCC certification  
• Shall be able to operate in the temperature range of ‐10 ~ +50°C  
 
C. High Speed Dome Camera The High speed dome cameras shall have the following:  
 
• The camera shall have 36x optical zoom and 12x digital zoom up to 432x zoom  
• Should support 4CIF, 25 fps supporting 8 users simultaneous access  
• Weatherproof with IP66 rated enclosure, heater and fan built in  
• Camera shall have high speed of pan up to 300°/sec and tilt up to 120°/sec  
• High performance memory with 128 presets and 3 self‐leaning auto tracks  
• High speed preset at 360 °/sec with high accuracy with +/‐0.1°  
• The camera Built‐in web browse for easy configuration  
• Minimum illumination of 0.01 lux  
• Focal length of 3.4mm‐122.4mm  
• Shall support the WDR and BLC functionality  
• Comply with CE and FCC Certifications  
• The camera shall be able to operate in the temperature range from – 20 
 
D. Box Camera Two different models of box camera to be offered. One box camera to have the following:  
 
• 1/4” CMOS Image sensor  
• Minimum illumination of 0.1Lux  
• Enhanced function with BLC and alarm trigger for intelligent video motion detection  
• Shall support two‐way audio  
• Shall have option for local storage  
• Shall support H.264, MPEG‐4, MJPEG simultaneous Triple‐Encoding 
 • Power over Ethernet (PoE) and AC24V/DC12V Support • Shall be able to operate in the temperature 
range of ‐10°C to 50°C  
• Shall have the FCC and CE certifications  
• The camera should be ONVIF compliant  
The other box camera to have the following: 
 • 1/ 2.7” Mega‐Pixel CMOS sensor  
• Minimum illumination of 0.5 Lux  
• Support High Definition mode (1280*720) with real‐time frame rate  
• Enhanced function with True Day/Night switch  
• Support BLC and alarm trigger for intelligent video motion detection  
• Shall support two‐way audio  
• Shall have option for local storage SDHC Card (Class 6 or above).  
• Shall support H.264, MPEG‐4, MJPEG simultaneous Triple‐Encoding  
• Power over Ethernet (PoE) and AC24V/DC12V Support  
• Shall be able to operate in the temperature range of ‐10°C to 50°C  
• Shall have the FCC and CE certifications  
• The camera should be ONVIF compliant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 456 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
44.16 
EXECUTION  
 
44.16.1  
AMINATION A. Examine site conditions prior to installation. Notify Architect and Department in writing 
if unsuitable conditions are encountered. Do not start installation until site conditions are acceptable.  
 
44.16.2 
3.2 INSTALLATION A. All the components shall be tested before shipping to the project location  
 

Video Management Software shall be installed, programmed and tested in accordance with 
manufacturer’s installation instructions.  
 
i. Coordinate interfaces with Department’s representative where appropriate.  
 
ii. Provide backboxes, racks, connectors, supports, conduit, cable, and wire for a complete and reliable 
installation. Obtain Department’s approval for exact location of all boxes, conduit, and wiring runs prior 
to installation.  
 
iii. Install conduit, cable, and wire parallel and square with building lines, including raised floors areas. 
Do not exceed forty percent fill in conduits. Gather wires and tie to create an orderly installation. iv. 
Coordinate with other trades to provide proper sequencing of installation.  
 
44.16.3  FIELD COMMISSIONING AND CERTIFICATION:  
 

A. Field Commissioning: Video Management Software Testing as recommended by manufacturer, 
including the following:  
i. Conduct complete inspection and testing of equipment, including verification of operation with 
connected equipment.  
ii. Test all the devices and demonstrate operational features to Department’s representative and 
authorities having jurisdiction as applicable.  
iii. Correct deficiencies until satisfactory results are obtained. iv. Submit written copies of test results.  
 
44.16.4 WARRANTY  

 

A. OEM Warranty: OEM shall provide standard 36 months’ warranty for the offered products & application 
software.  

 
B. OEM shall provide free of cost patches upgrades for the offered version of the software.  
 
C. AMC: The vendor shall provide AMC for complete Video Surveillance System for a period of 36 months 
after the OEM product Warranty.  
 
44.17 
TRAINING:  

(a) The contractor before finally handing over the SYSTEM, be responsible for training 
Department personnel deputed by the GE in proper operation, periodical maintenance and trouble 
shooting.  

 
(b) After the SYSTEM are taken over by the GE, the contractor’s technical representative shall 
remain available at both site for a period of Eight weeks to instruct and assist the aforesaid 
personnel in the actual operation, maintenance and trouble shooting.  
 
44.18 
GUARANTEE The contractor shall guarantee the SYSTEM for a period of 24 months. The guarantee period 
shall commence from the date of satisfactory completion of work & taken over by the GE. During this 
period of 24 months, the contractor shall be responsible for any defect of damage which, in the opinion of 
the GE is not due to fair wear and tear. In case of difference of opinion between the GE and the 
contractor as to whether a particular defect/damage is caused due to fair, wear, and tear or otherwise, 
the matter shall be referred to the Accepting Officer whose decision shall be final and binding.  
 
45. 
PA SYSTEM: Refer relevant items of Schedule ‘A’ in conjunction with manufracturers instructions. 
 
46. 
TRACK & CURTAIN SYSTEM: Refer relevant items of Schedule ‘A’ in conjunction with manufracturers 
instructions. 
 
47 to 49 
BLANK 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 457 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
50.  
SAFETY MEASURES TO BE FOLLOWED IN ALL ON GOING WOR K S: 
 
50.1 
Contractor shall at his own expense arrange for all safety provisions as per MES safety code appended 
as Annexure ‘B’ IAFW-2249. In addition to adherence of this safety code contractor shall also comply 
the following safety measures as subject work is to be to be executed in Naval Station Rambilli, which 
falls under Factory Act.     

(a) 
The contractors’ supervisors have to address their labour about safety measures to be adopted 
while working in the high raised buildings/technical buildings before commencement of work 
each day. 
(b) 
The contractor shall provide safety belt with Helmet and rope being used by all workers to be 
as per IS specification. 
(c) 
The contractor shall provide adjustable safety belt as per IS standard to be used forthwith. 
(d) 
Life line and net shall be provided by the contractor while working being undertaken over 
roof/top and cladding areas. 
(e) 
The contractor shall provide roof ladders and crawling ladders where necessary. 
(f) 
The contractor shall deploy at least one supervisor for each building as directed by GE. 
(g) 
The contractor shall obtain the working permit for the working at height and the electrical 
work from the concerned shop floor manager through the GE. 
 
50.2 
This Safety Clause is not a substitute to Statutory requirements as specified by the Govt. of India or 
Govt of AP vide various acts/rules and ‘prevailing safety regulations or norms of the  Naval Station 
Rambilli , but to further reinforce the existing safety standards which have been to be followed by the 
contractor. 

50.3 
Naval Station Rambilli, Visakhapatnam shall not be responsible for any injury/casualty or loss of the life 
that may take place during the course of contracted work/Service and any Compensation or 
expenditure towards treatment for such injury/casualty shall be the sole responsibility of the 
contractor. 

50.4 
The Contractor is to ensure adequate safeguards for personnel when employed on work where risk to 
human health/injury is involved.  The contractor is to comply with the following conditions regarding 
‘Labour Welfare and Safety”. 

(a) 
The contractor is to ensure that the workers are adequately equipped with safety 
gear/equipment that is necessitated by the nature of the work involved.  The Contractor is to 
adequately brief the workers in a suitable language easily understood by workers, of the 
potential hazards and necessity to adhere to Safe Work Practice. 

(b) 
Labourers (both male and female) below 18 years and above 50 years of age are not to be 
employed by contractor.  In addition, they should be free from any pre-existing morbid 
conditions which are likely to be aggravated by the work conditions in the Naval Station 
Rambilli. Chronic alcoholics are not to be employed. 

(c) 
All work force employed onsite/on-board ships is to wear separate uniform with firm’s logo for 
clear identification.  The workers are to wear suitable visible identification indicating their 
name and blood group. 

(d) 
The Contractor is liable to provide immediate first aid/hospitalization in case of 
accident/sudden illness to personnel. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 458 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

 (e) 
Naval authorities are to be informed by the contractor immediately in the eventuality of any 
accident taking place. 

(f) 
Compensation to the family on account of injury of any worker employed by the 
contractor/vendor will be the sole liability of the contractor/vendor. 

(g) 
The contractor shall ensure that the work force employed by the contractor abides by all 
security regulations imposed by the Naval Unit and does not in any manner compromise 
security of Naval property/area. 

(h) 
The contractor will render proof of police verification of character and antecedents of the 
employees proposed to be employed inside Naval Station Rambilli premises. 

(j) 
In case passes are issued to any contractor/firm for working beyond normal working hours on 
any day, it is the responsibility of the contractor to intimate the Security Officer/Concerned 
office/Officer of the day and the security staff in case there is a change in the approval, as 
sought for that day. 

(k) 
Passes are to be surrendered to security officer/concerned office after completion of contract. 

(l) 
An affidavit is to be submitted by the contractor for compliance of minimum wages, EPF and 
ESI along with acceptance of payment after producing proof of payment to the concerned 
authorities as per existing Gazette Notification issued from time to time. 

Electrical Safety:  

(m) 
In order to avoid burn injuries, shock, fatalities etc. Whilst working on Electrical 
equipment/undertaking Electrical works/rendering services involving use of Electricity/Electrical 
appliances (as applicable), strict compliance to safety standards laid by Contracting agency are 
to be adhered to. 

(n) 
Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) like Rubber gloves and shoes is mandatory when 
undertaking repairs/work on any electrical machinery.  Further, the contractor is to ensure use 
of properly insulated tools. 

(p) 
Repair/work on electrical equipment is to be undertaken only after a permit/ authorization to 
do so by the contracting agency. 

(q) 
Switching off of power supplies and tagging to avoid inadvertent switching on must be 
undertaken under supervision of technical support team of contracting agency. 

(r) 
Additionally, whilst undertaking repairs/works /providing services of non-electrical nature, all 
precautions are to be taken to avoid inadvertent contact of men and material from energized 
circuits/electrical overhead lines. 

(s) 
Safety glasses or face shields are worn when exposed to any electrical hazards including work 
on energized electrical systems. 

Personal Protective Equipment (PPE):  

(t) 
Contractors are to ensure provisioning of proper PPE for all workers employed.  This should 
include non-skid shoes/welding shoes, helmets, gloves, masks, welding shield, clothing etc., 
Construction workers should wear work shoes or boots with slip-resistant and puncture-
resistant soles. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 459 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

 (u) 
Workers should wear Safety Helmet where there is a potential for objects falling from above, 
bumps to their heads from fixed object, or accidental head contract hazards.  The safety 
helmet used by contractor shall be DARK YELLOW in colour with name of contractor 
mentioned in front portion.  All safety helmets shall have chin strap. 

(v) 
 Workers should wear the right gloves for the job (for example, heavy duty rubber gloves for 
concrete work, welding gloves or welding gloves for welding insulated gloves and sleeves for 
electrical hazards). 

Scaffolding:  

(w) 
It is to be ensured that labourers employed on work on a high structure, where risk of 
accident exists, are secured to a strong point with a long rope acting as safety belt/life line.  
Where no suitable strong points exist, one may be specifically constructed/fabricated prior to 
commencement of work.  The scaffold checklist is placed at Annexure-1 for the guidance of 
contractors.  The contractor must submit a signed copy of the scaffold check list to the user 
department prior starting work on high structure. 

(x) 
Following is to be ensured while working on high structure: 

(i) 
Scaffolding should be set on sound footing. 

(ii) Damaged parts that affect the strength of the scaffold are taken out of service. 

(iii) Scaffolds are not moved horizontally while workers are on them unless they are designed 
to be mobile and workers have been trained in the proper procedures. 

(iv) Scaffolds are not erected or moved within 10 feet of power lines. 

(v) Workers should not be permitted to work on scaffold in bad weather or high winds unless 
a competent person has determined that it is safe to do so. 

(vi) Ladders, boxes, barrels, buckets or other make shift platforms are not to be used to raise 
work height. 

(vii) Extra material is not to be allowed to build up of scaffold platforms. 

(viii) Scaffold should not be loaded with more weight than they were designed to support. 

Floor and Wall Openings:  

(y) 
Floor openings (12 inches or more) are to be guarded by a secured cover, a   guardrail or 
equivalent on all sided (except at entrances to stairways). 

(z) 
Toe boards are to be installed around the edges of permanent floor openings (Where persons 
may pass below the opening). 

 
Elevated Surfaces:  

(aa) 
Following is to be ensured while working on Elevated Surfaces. 

(i) 
Signs are to be posted, when appropriate, showing the elevated surface load capacity. 

(ii) 
Surfaces elevated more than 48 inches above the floor or ground should have standard 
guardrails. 

(iii) 
All elevated surfaces (beneath which people or machinery could be exposed to falling 
objects) should have standard 4 inch toe boards. 

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 460 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

 (iv) A permanent means of entry and exit with handrails is to be provided to elevated 

storage and work surfaces. 

(v) 
Material should be piled, stacked or racked in a way that prevents it from tipping, 
falling, collapsing, rolling or spreading. 

 
Crane Safety:  

(ab) 
Following is to be ensured during Crane Operation: 

(i) 
Crane should be restricted from operating within 10 feet of any electrical power line. 

(ii) 
Rated load capacities, operating speed and instructions are to be posted and visible to 
the operator.  Cranes should be equipped with a load chart. 

(iii) 
Only properly trained and qualified operators/riggers are to be slowed to work with 
hosting and rigging equipment.  The area below crane boom to be barricaded when 
lifting is in progress and it shall be ensured that no person shall come under suspended 
load at any given time.  When cranes are used in night, there shall be adequate 
illumination and the crane operator and rigger shall wear fluorescent and light reflective 
jackets. 

(iv) 
No crane shall be left unattended with hanging load.  On completion of work, the 
boom/jib of the crane may be brought down and kept in horizontal condition.  There 
should not be any hanging hooks, and hooks are to be secured before the crane leaves 
the premises of the work site. 

(v) 
No crane including hydraulic crane shall be allowed to move on road with suspended 
load. 

(vi) 
The contractor need to inspect the area where the crane is being positioned for the 
operation prior to deployment of crane.  In case of load bearing strength of the 
ground/soil is not sufficient, then the contractor has to use suitable aids for supporting 
the hydraulic jacks of crane for better stability and safe operation of the crane. 

 
Safety during Welding Operations:  

(ac) 
Welding cables /accessories used by the firms should be fully serviceable, complying with 
current regulations in force and adequately marked and properly laid out for ease of 
identification. 

(ad) 
The welder and assistants employed need to be briefed on the procedures of operation of gas 
cylinders daily to avoid any accident. 

(ae) 
Fire sentries employed should have under gone course on the fighting prior to employment. 

(af) 
Provision of inspection tally with appropriate validity duration for welding operation. 

(ag) 
Confined Spaces:   Personnel entering confined spaces are to be adequately briefed, equipped 
with protective clothing masks and be secured with life line with safety number available 
outside the confined space. 

(ah) 
Lifting Appliances:    All lifting and hauling appliances like crane sling, chain pulleys, hoists 
etc being used should have in-date load test certificates certified by the competent authority 
(as per Factory Act and Rules made there under).  All lifting equipment shall be exposed to 
“Pre-use check” before use every time.  Pre-use check must include checking of all critical 
controls such as brake, limit switches, interlock, warning devices etc.  Contractor shall maintain 
record of pre-use checks at site. 

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 461 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

 (aj) 
Safety training by safety department needs to be conducted for all contractors prior to 
commencement of work, it shall be the responsibility of the contractor to liaise with safety 
department to avail the facility of training and have all its employees trained within 10 days of 
award of contract.  The content of the training program would include the following: - 

(i) 
Safety Regulations of the Naval Station Rambilli. 

(ii) 
Use of Personal Protective Equipments in general and any special Personal Protective 
Equipments specific for a particular job. 

(iii) 
Emergency preparedness plans including evacuation plan. 

(iv) 
Fire Orders of the Naval Station Rambilli and emergency communication procedure. 

(ak) 
The contractor is to nominate at least one qualified safety officer/supervisor for 50 workers 
and forward his contact details to the Safety department.  Safety supervisor of the Contractor 
shall liaise with user & Safety department for compliance of safety norms and training of 
contract workers and take regular rounds of all work places to ensure safe working conditions.  
The duties and responsibilities of the Contractor Safety Officer/Supervisor shall include 
following: 

(i) 
To assess the hazards associated with jobs in consultation with all concerned and 
establish safe working procedure including identification of the escape routes.  

(ii) 
To establish a written record of factors that can cause injuries and illnesses. 

(iii) 
To undertake routine/surprise inspections of all work sites and identify unsafe conditions 
and practices, if any.   Check for compliance of the safety practices being followed with 
approved Health-Safety-and-Environment Plan.  

(iv) 
To investigate promptly the incidents (including near-miss) in order to advise corrective 
and/or preventive action. 

(v) 
To maintain statistical information for use in analyzing all cases of incidents and events 
involving contract personnel. 

(vi) 
To provide the means for complying with the reporting requirements for occupational 
injuries and illnesses. 

(vii) 
To check whether the proposed working arrangements are safe and satisfactory, 
particularly at the interface between the contractor’s planned work and Naval Station 
Rambilli existing facilities. 

(viii) To communicate to the contractor the imposed restrictions that may affect the work/ 

personnel such as the temporary closure of a corridor or electrical isolation of 
equipment. 

(ix) 
To review and monitor the contractor’s adherence to approved Health-Safety-and-
Environment plan and all applicable environmental, health and safety requirements. 

(x) 
To ensure that Consultant, Contractor’s Managers, Supervisors and workmen at all levels 
(who will plan, monitor, oversee and carry out the work) undergo Health, Safety and 
Environmental training in their respective responsibilities with respect to conducting 
work safely and with due regard for the protection of the environment. 

(x)  
To identify areas of operations where specialized training is required to deal with 
potential dangers. 
 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 462 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
 (xii) 
To document and to bring to the attention of plan Supervisor and Contractor any non-
compliance/violation of the safety norms against approved safety and health plan or safety and health 
requirements and also raise these issues in the Safety Committee Meetings. 

(xiii) 
To take part in Tool Box Meetings at random and to ensure maintenance of records. 

(xiv) 
To attend weekly (or as called for) meeting with Safety Officer with their weekly safety performance 
and submit action plan/status of recorded points of last meeting and discuss the safety, health and 
environment issues at work site of contractor. 

(xiii)  
To get assessed the health of equipment/appliances of contractor before they begin the job.  
Thorough assessment shall be done for all such equipment/ appliances before first use and at regular 
interval to ensure that their health is okay and statutory requirements are complied. 
 
(al) 
Smoking and Carrying of Matches/Lighters:    Smoking is prohibited inside the Naval Station 
Rambilli.  Carrying of matches, lighter and any other source of ignition inside the Naval Station, 
unless authorised is prohibited. 

(i) 
Carrying, storing and consuming intoxicants by the workers, supervisors and contractors in the Naval 
Station is strictly prohibited.  Entering the Naval Station in an intoxicated state is a punishable 
offense. 

(am) 
Construction of Temporary Shed/Office Building:    No temporary shed/office building/store shall 
be made by contractor inside the Naval Station Rambilli unless the approval has been obtained by the 
contractor from competent authority.  Such permission shall be registered with the CSFO office.  Also, 
such premises shall be considered as contractor’s office.  The temporary sheds made by the 
contractor during execution of work shall be removed after completion of work.  Otherwise necessary 
amount (pertaining to the cost of removal as decided by concerned GE) to be recovered from final bill 
amount. 

(an) 
Housekeeping:     The Contractor shall maintain a high level of housekeeping at al times.  The work 
site and contractor’s office within the Naval Station Rambilli premises shall be kept clean and tidy so 
as not to create unsafe condition, health hazard or fire hazard.  Cleaning of the work area at the end 
of the day and upon completion of work is a part of the job.  Unnecessary materials, used 
appliances/material, rags etc, shall not be piled or stored on or around the site unless written 
approval is obtained from the area in-charge. 

 (ap) 
Handling and Storing Hazardous Materials:     The Contractor shall ensure that the Material 
Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) is available with any hazardous material brought into Naval Station 
Rambilli premises by the contractor.  Inflammable liquids must be handed in safe cans approved by 
Naval Station Rambilli and shall be stored in the locations allowed by Naval Station Rambilli.  All such 
containers or cans must be clearly labelled.  Only trained and experienced personnel equipped with 
proper PPE shall handle such material. 

(aq) 
Work Permit System:    All works in Naval Station Rambilli premises shall be covered under “Work 
Permit System” such as cold work, hot work, excavation, work at height, radiation, entry into confined 
space, electrical isolation, energisation etc. 

(ar) 
Traffic Safety:  

(i) 
All vehicles (including cranes, forklift, hydra etc.) required to e brought inside the Naval 
Station Rambilli by contactor are to have appropriate clearance from the Chief Security 
and Fire Officer (CSFO) office. 

 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 463 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

(ii) No vehicle shall enter the hot work area or off-limit areas etc without prior approval of the 

concerned department. All the vehicles entering the Naval Station Rambilli must have valid license 
and must be in possession of valid RTO certificates. 

(iii) All traffic instructions displayed in the Naval Station Rambilli shall be followed by the driver of 

vehicle.  Any deviation from set procedures shall be treated as Safety violation. 

(as)   Reporting of Accident/Near miss/Fire/Explosion:  

(i) Contractor shall report all cases of injury (including first aid) and Near miss incident to the user 

department and the nominated Safety Officer immediately after the incident.  He will help the 
Safety Officer to carry out the investigation and analysis, and also make available their employees 
for interrogation.  

(ii) All incidents of fire/explosion shall be immediately informed to Fire Station Control through 

telephone or fire alarm point.  The person at site will try to extinguish the fire using fire fighting 
facility at site.  All personnel while in Naval Station Rambilli must follow the Fire Orders of the Naval 
Station Rambilli. Telephone number of Fire Station Control room must be displayed at site. 

(at) The management of Naval Station Rambilli reserves its right to suspend the work in the event of 

the contractor not complying with the safety rules, instructions with regard to safety and health 
practices for which no claim of any kind will be entertained. 

50.5 
Monitoring of Contractor’s Safety Performance:     The safety performance of the contractor shall 
be monitored by the User department/Safety department persons from time to time.  Any deviation 
from safety angle should be corrected immediately.  In case of violation of safety system, 
fine/punishment will be imposed on the contractor.  Each completed works/project, by way of a 
contract, will be reviewed by the y Naval Station Rambilli not only for the quality of work, adherence to 
schedule, and cost but also for the effectiveness of the contractor’s safety program.  The overall 
assessment will be used for future contracts. 

50.6 
Infringement for Non Compliance of Safety, Health &   E nv iron m en t  N o r ms :  The contractor 
has to take full precautions to implement all provisions of Health, Safety & Environment requirement of 
the Naval Station Rambilli.  In case of non compliance of Health, Safety & Environment and 
procedures, the following penalties shall be imposed on the Contractor by the Naval Station Rambilli 
and approved by the Accepting Officer and shall be deducted from his running/final bill.  The penalty 
can be recommended by main user department/area in-charge/ inspector from safety department or 
any officer authorised by the management for the purpose and it to be reviewed and approved by the 
Accepting Officer.  The following penalties are in addition to the cost of recovery for damage if any:  

(a) 
Minor safety violation of applicable health, safety & environment related Rules, Regulations 
and Norms – Penalty of ` 1000/- 
(b) 
Major safety violation of applicable health, safety & environment related Rules, Regulations 
and norms – Penalty of ` 3000/-. 
(c) 
If above violation result in any injury to personnel, the additional penalties will be as follows 
on per person basis: 
(i) 
Any physical injury, a penalty of ` 1,00,000/- per injury in addition to the above penalty 
for safety violation. 
(ii) 
Fatal Accident, a penalty of `5,00,000/- per fatality in addition to the above penalty for 
safety violation. 
50.7 
These penalties do not absolve the contractor from any further disciplinary/civil action.  In order to have 
effective compliance of the above provisions, contractor shall take an insurance policy with a view to cover 
themselves against the above penalties and the contractor shall submit a copy of the policy to main user 
department before taking possession/work commencement at site. The Naval Station Rambilli reserves the right 
to impose Tender holiday/De-registration/Black listing in case of non-compliance of safety regulations by the firm.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature of contractor 
 
 
 
 
 
DD (Contracts)               
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for Accepting Officer  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 464 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
51.  
LIST OF DRAWINGS:  The under mentioned drawings shall form part of the tender documents:  

Sl 
No 
Description of Drawing 
Drawing No. 
Sheet 

No 
Date 
Date of last 

Revision 

 
ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS 
 
 
 
 

1 
LIST OF DRAWING 
DGNP/WD/C/LD/2050 
 1/3 
25-07-2022 
 

2 
LIST OF DRAWING 
DGNP/WD/C/LD/2050 
 2/3 
25-07-2022 
 

3
LIST OF DRAWING 
DGNP/WD/C/LD/2050
3/3
25-07-2022
 

 
SITE PLAN 
 
 
 
 

4 
WARE HOUSE ROOF PLAN AND AREA 
DETAILS 

DGNP/S/C/621 
 1/1 
25-07-2022 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

A 
NAVAL PROVOST AND ACCESSES GATE (G+1)  
 
 
 

5 
GROUND FLOOR PLAN (NAVAL PROVOST) 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-A 
 1/11 
25-07-2022 
 

6
FIRST FLOOR PLAN (NAVAL PROVOST) 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-A 
 2/11 
25-07-2022 
 

7 
ROOF 
PLAN 
& 
MUMTY 
FLOOR 
PLAN 
(STAIRCASE) AND OTHER DETAILS(NP) 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-A 
 3/11 
25-07-2022 
 

8
SECTION 1-1' & 2-2' (NAVAL PROVOST) 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-A 
 4/11 
25-07-2022 
 

9
SECTIONS 3-3' (NAVAL PROVOST) 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-A 
 5/11 
25-07-2022 
 

10 
ELEVATION-A & C (NAVAL PROVOST) 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-A 
 6/11 
25-07-2022 
 

11
ELEVATION - B & D (NAVAL PROVOST) 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-A 
 7/11 
25-07-2022 
 

12
GROUND FLOOR PLAN (ACCESSES GATE) 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-A 
 8/11 
25-07-2022 
 

13
ROOF PLAN (ACCESSES GATE) 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-A 
 9/11 
25-07-2022 
 

14 
ELEVATIONS A,B,C&D AND SECTION- 4-4' 
&5-5'(ACCESSES GATE) 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-A 
10/11 
25-07-2022 
 

15
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-A
11/11
25-07-2022
 

B 
CAPTAIN SUPERINTENDENT AND REPAIR YARD 
 
 
 

16 
GROUND FLOOR PLAN  
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-B 
 1/5 
25-07-2022 
 

17
ROOF PLAN & SHAFT DETAILS
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-B
2/5
25-07-2022
 

18 
ELEVATIONS - M,N,P & Q 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-B 
 3/5 
25-07-2022 
 

19
SECTION AA' & BB'
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-B
4/5
25-07-2022
 

20
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-B
5/5
25-07-2022
 

C 
ADMIN BUILDING -01 (G+2) 
 
 
 

21 
GROUND FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-G 
 1/6 
25-07-2022 
 

22
FIRST FLOOR PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-G
2/6
25-07-2022
 

23
SECOND FLOOR PLAN AND SECTION CC'
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-G
3/6
25-07-2022
 

24 
TERRCE FLOOR PLAN, SECTION AA' and BB' 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-G 
 4/6 
25-07-2022 
 

25 
SECTION AA', BB' and CC' ELEVATIONS 
FRONT and REAR 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-G 
 5/6 
25-07-2022 
 

26
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-G
6a/6 
25-07-2022
 

27
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-G
6b/6 
25-07-2022
 

28 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-G 
6c/6 
25-07-2022 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 465 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Sl 
No 
Description of Drawing 
Drawing No. 
Sheet 

No 
Date 
Date of last 

Revision 

D 
ADMIN BUILDING -02 (G+1) 
 
 
 
 

29 
GROUND FLOOR PLAN  
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-H 
 1/5 
25-07-2022 
 

30
FIRST FLOOR PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-H
2/5
25-07-2022
 

31
TERRACE FLOOR PLAN, PART PLAN OF 
INDOC RM,SECTION AA' AND BB'  

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-H
3/5
25-07-2022
 

32
ELEVATIONS FRONT AND REAR, SECTION 
AA', BB' AND CC' 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-H
4/5
25-07-2022
 

33 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-H 
 5a/5 
25-07-2022 
 

34
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-H
5b/5
25-07-2022
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

E 
PORT CONTROL TOWER (G+2) 
 
 
 
 

35 
GROUND FLOOR PLAN  
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-Q 
 1/6 
25-07-2022 
 

36
FIRST FLOOR PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-Q
2/6
25-07-2022
 

37
SECOND FLOOR PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-Q
3/6
25-07-2022
 

38 
ROOF PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-Q 
 4/6 
25-07-2022 
 

39 
SECTION AA' & BB' AND FRONT, REAR,LEFT 
& RIGHT SIDE ELEVATIONS 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-Q 
 5/6 
25-07-2022 
 

40 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-Q 
 6/6 
25-07-2022 
 

F
STATION HEALTH OFFICE 
 
 
 
 

41
GROUND FLOOR PLAN & PART SITE PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-P 
 1/5 
25-07-2022 
 

42 
ROOF PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-P 
 2/5 
25-07-2022 
 

43 
ELEVATIONS A, B, C & D 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-P 
 3/5 
25-07-2022 
 

44
SECTION 1-1', 2-2', 3-3' & 4-4' 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-P 
 4/5 
25-07-2022 
 

45
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-P
5/5
25-07-2022
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

G
SWIMMING POOL (G+1) 
 
 
 
 

46 
SITE PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-J 
 1/10 
25-07-2022 
 

47 
PLAN AT LEVEL +900 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-J 
 2/10 
25-07-2022 
 

48
PLAN AT LEVEL +3000
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-J
3/10
25-07-2022
 

49
ROOF PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-J
4/10
25-07-2022
 

50 
ELEVATION - A, B, C & D, SECTION -FF' & 
GG' 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-J 
 5/10 
25-07-2022 
 

51 
PUMP ROOM ELEVATIONS - P,Q,R&S 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-J 
 6/10 
25-07-2022 
 

52 
SWIMMING POOL GALLERY ELEVATIONS A, 
B, C & D, SECTION EE' 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-J 
 7/10 
25-07-2022 
 

53 
SECTION AA', BB', CC' & DD' 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-J 
 8/10 
25-07-2022 
 

54
TYPICAL DETAILS
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-J
9/10
25-07-2022
 

55
SWIMMING POOL DIVING STAND DETAIL 
SECTION AA' 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-J
10/10
25-07-2022
 

56 

COLUMN AND WALL LAYOUT PLAN-TOILET 
BLOCK 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-J
11/12 
25-07-2022
 

57 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-J
12/12 
25-07-2022
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 466 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Sl 
No 
Description of Drawing 
Drawing No. 
Sheet 

No 
Date 
Date of last 

Revision 

H
GRAND STAND 
 
 
 
 

58 
PART SITE PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-L 
 1/10 
25-07-2022 
 

59
GROUND FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-L
2/10
25-07-2022
 

60
UPPER FLOOR & ROOF PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-L
3/10
25-07-2022
 

61 
ELEVATION 1 & 2 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-L 
 4/10 
25-07-2022 
 

62 
ELEVATION 3 & 4 AND KEY PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-L 
 5/10 
25-07-2022 
 

63
SECTION AA' & BB'
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-L
6/10
25-07-2022
 

64
PLAN OF TOILET BLOCK 1&2
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-L
7/10
25-07-2022
 

65 
 ELEVATIONS 5,6,7&8 (TOILET BLOCK) 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-L 
 8/10 
25-07-2022 
 

66 
SECTION CC' & DD' (TOILET BLOCK) 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-L 
 9/10 
25-07-2022 
 

67
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-L
10/10
25-07-2022

I
GYMNASIUM (G+1) 
 
 
 
 

68 
GROUND FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-K 
 1/8 
25-07-2022 
 

69 
FIRST FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-K 
 2/8 
25-07-2022 
 

70
ROOF PLAN & SHAFT DETAILS
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-K
3/8
25-07-2022
 

71
FRONT & REAR SIDE ELEVATIONS
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-K
4/8
25-07-2022
 

72 
LEFT & RIGHT SIDE ELEVATIONS 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-K 
 5/8 
25-07-2022 
 

73 
SECTION AA' & BB' 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-K 
 6/8 
25-07-2022 
 

74
SECTION CC' & DD'
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-K
7/8
25-07-2022
 

75
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-K
8/8
25-07-2022
 

J
K- SUB MARINE REPAIR YARD (G+3) 
 
 
 
 

76 
GROUND & FIRST FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-C 
 1/16 
25-07-2022 
 

77
SECOND & THIRD FLOOR PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-C
2/16
25-07-2022
 

78
ROOF FLOOR & MUMTY ROOF PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-C
3/16
25-07-2022
 

79 
ELEVATION - E & G 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-C 
 4/16 
25-07-2022 
 

80 
ELEVATION - F & H 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-C 
 5/16 
25-07-2022 
 

81
SECTION AA' & BB'
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-C
6/16
25-07-2022
 

82
SECTION CC' & DD', SHAFT DT-1 & DT-2, 
DETAILS OF STEPS & PLINTH PROTECTION 
DETAILS 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-C
7/16
25-07-2022

 

83
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-C
8/16
25-07-2022
 

84
ROOF PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-C
9/16
25-07-2022
 

85 
ELEVATION-A & B 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-C 
 10/16 
25-07-2022 
 

86 
ELEVATION-C & D 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-C 
 11/16 
25-07-2022 
 

87
SECTION XX' & YY'
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-C
12/16
25-07-2022
 

88
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-C
13/16
25-07-2022
 

89 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-C 
 14/16 
25-07-2022 
 

90 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-C 
 15/16 
25-07-2022 
 

91
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-C
16/16
25-07-2022
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 467 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Sl 
No 
Description of Drawing 
Drawing No. 
Sheet 

No 
Date 
Date of last 

Revision 

K
WARE   HOUSE 
 
 
 
 

92 
GROUND FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-T 
 1/8 
25-07-2022 
 

93
MEZZANINE FLOOR PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-T
2/8
25-07-2022
 

94
ROOF PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-T
3/8
25-07-2022
 

95 
SECTION -EE', FF', ELWEVATION P&Q  
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-T 
 4/8 
25-07-2022 
 

96 
SECTION AA', BB' 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-T 
 5/8 
25-07-2022 
 

97
SECTION CC', DD'
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-T
6/8
25-07-2022
 

98
ELEVATION R AND S
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-T
7/8
25-07-2022
 

  99 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-T 
 8/8 
25-07-2022 
 

L
MEDICAL   INSPECTION   ROOM 
 
 
 
 

100
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-D
1/7
25-07-2022
 

101
ROOF PLAN AND DETAILS
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-D
2/7
25-07-2022
 

102 
ELEVATION -A, B ,C & D 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-D 
 3/7 
25-07-2022 
 

103 
SECTIONS XX, YY, & ZZ AND OTHER 
DETAILS 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-D 
 4/7 
25-07-2022 
 

104 
MISALLIANCES DETAILS-1 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-D 
 5/7 
25-07-2022 
 

105 
MISALLIANCES DETAILS-2 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-D 
 6/7 
25-07-2022 
 

106
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-D
7/7
25-07-2022
 

M
HOSPITAL   BLOCK   (G+1) 
 
 
 
 

107 
GROUND FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-U 
 1/22 
25-07-2022 
 

108 
FIRST FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-U 
 2/22 
25-07-2022 
 

109
ROOF PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-U
3/22
25-07-2022
 

110
ELEVATION - M,N,P, & Q
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-U
4/22
25-07-2022
 

111 
SECTION - AA' & BB' 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-U 
 5/22 
25-07-2022 
 

112 
RAMP DETAILS 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-U 
 6/22 
25-07-2022 
 

113
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U
7/22
25-07-2022
 

114
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U
8/22
25-07-2022
 

115 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U 
 9/22 
25-07-2022 
 

116 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U 
 10/22 
25-07-2022 
 

117
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U
11/22
25-07-2022
 

118
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U
12/22
25-07-2022
 

119 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U 
 13/22 
25-07-2022 
 

120 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U 
 14/22 
25-07-2022 
 

121
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U
15/22
25-07-2022
 

122
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U
16/22
25-07-2022
 

123 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U 
 17/22 
25-07-2022 
 

124 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U 
 18/22 
25-07-2022 
 

125
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U
19/22
25-07-2022
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 468 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Sl 
No 
Description of Drawing 
Drawing No. 
Sheet 

No 
Date 
Date of last 

Revision 
126 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U 
 20/22 
25-07-2022 
 

127 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U 
 21/22 
25-07-2022 
 

128
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-U
22/22
25-07-2022
 

 
 

N
NURSING   OFFICER   HOSTEL   (G+3) 
 
 
 
 

129 
GROUND FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-N 
 1/14 
25-07-2022 
 

130
FIRST/SECOND FLOOR PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-N
2/14
25-07-2022
 

131
THIRD FLOOR PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-N
3/14
25-07-2022
 

132 
ROOF PLAN & OTHER DETAILS 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-N 
 4/14 
25-07-2022 
 

133 
FRONT ELEVATION 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-N 
 5/14 
25-07-2022 
 

134
REAR ELEVATION 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-N
6/14
25-07-2022
 

135
LEFT & RIGHT SIDE ELEVATIONS
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-N
7/14
25-07-2022
 

136 
SECTIONS A-A' 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-N 
 8/14 
25-07-2022 
 

137 
SECTION B-B' & C-C' 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-N 
 9/14 
25-07-2022 
 

138
DETAILS OF STAIRCASE & OTHER DETAILS
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-N
10/14
25-07-2022
 

139
MUMTY 
PLAN 
& 
MUMTY 
ROOF 
PLAN(STAIRCASE) 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-N
11/14
25-07-2022
 

140
MISALLIANCES DETAILS
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-N
12/14
25-07-2022
 

141
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-N
13/14
25-07-2022
 

142 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-N 
14/14 
25-07-2022 
 

O
COMMANDER OF YARD CRAFT 
 
 
 
 

143
GROUND & FIRST FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-M
1/6
25-07-2022
 

144
TERRACE FLOOR PLAN AND RAMP SECTION
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-M
2/6
25-07-2022
 

145 
FRONT,REAR,LEFT 
& 
RIGHT 
SIDE 
ELEVATION 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-M 
 3/6 
25-07-2022 
 

146
SECTION AA', BB' & XX'
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-M
4/6
25-07-2022
 

147 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-M 
 5/6 
25-07-2022 
 

148 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-M 
 6/6 
25-07-2022 
 

P
SECONDARY SCHOOL (G+2) 
 
 
 
 

149
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-E
1/8
25-07-2022
 

150 
FIRST FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-E 
 2/8 
25-07-2022 
 

151 
SECOND FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-E 
 3/8 
25-07-2022 
 

152
ROOF PLAN, MUMTY PLAN & MUMTY ROOF 
PLAN AND SHAFT DETAILS 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-E
4/8
25-07-2022
 

153 
FRONT & SIDE ELEVATION 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-E 
 5/8 
25-07-2022 
 

154
SECTION AA',XX'&YY'
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-E
6/8
25-07-2022
 

155
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-E
7/8
25-07-2022
 

156 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-E 
 8/8 
25-07-2022 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 469 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Sl 
No 
Description of Drawing 
Drawing No. 
Sheet 

No 
Date 
Date of last 

Revision 

Q
NAVAL KG SCHOOL(G+1) 
 
 
 
 

157 
GROUND FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-F 
 1/6 
25-07-2022 
 

158
FIRST FLOOR PLAN & RAMP DETAILS
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-F
2/6
25-07-2022
 

159
ROOF PLAN, MUMTY PLAN & MUMTY ROOF 
PLAN AND SHAFT DETAILS 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-F
3/6
25-07-2022
 

160
ELEVATION 1 & 2
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-F
4/6
25-07-2022
 

161
SECTIONS - AA', BB', CC', XX'&YY'
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-F
5/6
25-07-2022
 

162 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-F 
 6/6 
25-07-2022 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

R
AUDITORIUM (G+1) 
 
 
 
 

163
PART SITE PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-R
1/9
25-07-2022
 

164 
COLUMN DEMARCATION PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-R 
 2/9 
25-07-2022 
 

165 
GROUND FLOOR PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-R 
 3/9 
25-07-2022 
 

166
FIRST FLOOR PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-R
4/9
25-07-2022
 

167
TRUSS PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-R
5/9
25-07-2022
 

168 
ELEVATION  A, B, C & D 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-R 
 6/9 
25-07-2022 
 

169 
SECTIONS AA' HEIGHT SECTION 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-R 
 7/9 
25-07-2022 
 

170
SECTIONS BB' & TOILET SECTION 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-R
8/9
25-07-2022
 

171
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-R
9/9
25-07-2022
 

S
BUS STOP 
 
 
 
 

172 
BUS STOP PLAN, TOP PLAN, FRONT 
ELEVATION & SECTION PP' 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-S 
 1/2 
25-07-2022 
 

173 
BUS STOP DETAILS - A & B 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-S 
 2/2 
25-07-2022 
 

T
MORTUARY 
 
 
 
 

174
PLAN, ROOF PLAN ELEVATIONS - A&C
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-X
1/3
25-07-2022
 

175
ELEVATION  B & D
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-X
2/3
25-07-2022
 

176 
SECTION XX'&YY' 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-X 
 3/3 
25-07-2022 
 

177 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-V 
 4/4 
25-07-2022 
 

U
BIO MEDICAL 
 
 
 
 

178
PLAN, ROOF PLAN, SECTION XX'&YY'
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-W
1/2
25-07-2022
 

179 
FRONT,REAR,LEFT 
& 
RIGHT 
SIDE 
ELEVATIONS 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-W 
 2/2 
25-07-2022 
 

180
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-V
4/4
25-07-2022
 

V
GARAGE, GAS MANIFOLD AND OXYGEN GENERATION PLANT 
 
 
 

181 
PLAN & ROOF PLAN 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-V 
 1/4 
25-07-2022 
 

182
FRONT,REAR,LEFT & RIGHT SIDE 
ELEVATIONS 

DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-V
2/4
25-07-2022
 

183
SECTION XX',YY' & ZZ
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-V
3/4
25-07-2022
 

184
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-V
4/4
25-07-2022
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 470 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Sl 
No 
Description of Drawing 
Drawing No. 
Sheet 

No 
Date 
Date of last 

Revision 

W
ENGINEERING SERVICES(G+2) 
 
 
 
 

185 
GROUND FLOOR & FIRST FLOOR PLANS 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-Y 
 1/5 
25-07-2022 
 

186
SECOND FLOOR PLAN & ROOF PLAN
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-Y
2/5
25-07-2022
 

187
ELEVATIONS
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-Y
3/5
25-07-2022
 

188 
SECTION  
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-Y 
 4/5 
25-07-2022 
 

189 
SCHEDULE OF FINISHES 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/SF/2050-Y 
 5/5 
25-07-2022 
 

 
 

UG SUMP 75000 LTS CAPACITY
  
  
  
 

190 
PLAN, ELEVATION AND SECTION AA' 
DGNP/WD/C/AR/2050-Z 
 1/1 
25-07-2022 
 

 

 

Note:    In the event of discrepancies in the dates indicated in Column No. 5 & 6 above, the actual date prevailing 
on the drawing with latest amendments date shall take precedence.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(T Venkata Ratnam) 
Signature of contractor 
 
 
 
 
 
AAD (Contracts)               
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for Accepting Officer 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 471 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
52. 
APPROVED NAMES FOR PRODUCTS TO BE INCORPORATED IN WORKS:  The makes of products 
given hereinafter are expected to confirm IS specifications/bear ISI marking. In case, they do not confirm 
to IS, they automatically deemed to be deleted from this list. The Tenderer therefore, shall make market 
enquiry about the same and no claim whatsoever on this account shall be entertained. In such cases, the 
make shall be as approved by the Garrison Engineer. The makes if given in Schedule “A” shall take 
precedence over this list of makes. 

52.1 
If any item makes as specified in PS / Schedule “A” neither available nor manufacturing in the market 
then IS marked makes with prior approval of GE can be taken before execution and the same shall be 
intimated. 

 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

1 

Factory 
Made 
Chowkats, 
Panelled   / Skeleton Shutters 
[Wooden] 

M/s. Timber Technic, Phase-V Industrial Development Area Jeedimetla, 
Hyderabad – 500 235 / M/s. Wood India Products, Calcutta / M/s. Standard 
Doors, Jeedimetla, Hyderabad / M/s. Electrical & General Wood Industries K-6, 
Industrial Development Area, Uppal, Hyderabad – 500 035 / M/s. Sri Ram 
Wood Products [P] Ltd, 31-34-145/1, Bangaramma Metta, Visakhapatnam / 
M/s. MP Wood Products, 124, Labriya Bheru, Dhar Road, Indore / M/s. Berar 
Timber Industries Pvt Ltd, National High Way No. 8, Village Saran, Valsad, 
Gujarat – 396 001 / M/s. Goyal Bros, Goyal House, Ramkund, Raipur – 492 001 
/ M/s. Betul Wood Products Pvt Ltd, Industrial Estate Betul – 460 022 / M/s. 
Goyal Industrial Corpn, 8343, D.B Gupta Marg, New Delhi – 110 005 / M/s. 
Doorking Industries, 27, G.N Block Sector-V, Industrial Estate, Salt Lake, 
Calcutta – 700 091 / M/s. Wood Treatment Specialist, Chennai / M/s. Wood 
Design [P] Ltd, Bangalore / M/s. Kitply Flush Doors And Furniture Co, Chennai 

2 
PVC / UPVC Door, Window & 
Chowkhat 

Kumar Arch Tech Pvt. Ltd / Sintex India Ltd. / Polywood / Rajshri 
Plastiwood Ltd.  /Poly Windows Pune / Accucell / Duraplast extrusion 

3 
Moulded Panel Doors 
Jain / Goyal / Rajshri Plastiwood Ltd. / Sintex 

4 
Solid Panel Foam Doors [Solid 
/ Glazed Panel] 
Fenesta / Kesar / LG Hausys  

5 
FRP Door Shutters 
Fibreways Technology / Krafto Door / Sintex India Ltd 

6 

Natural 
Fibre 
Thermo 
Composite Door / Window 
Shutter & Frames 

Durosam [AB Composite Pvt. Ltd.] / ELCONS 

7 
Wooden Panel / Flush Doors 
& Windows 

MP Wood Products / Doorking Kolkata / Ambika Timber Works / 
Premier Wood Craft [P] Ltd. / Jain Doors Pvt. Ltd. 

8 
Automatic 
Door 
& 
Glass 
Fittings 
Toshi /  Hardwin / Hettich 

9 
Aluminium Door & Window 
Fittings 
Bharat / Classic / Alans / Argent / Hettich 

10 

Extruded 
Polished 
/ 
Matt 
Finish 
Brass 
Builders 
Hardware 

Harrison / Godrej / Crown 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 472 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

 

11 
MS Stove Enameled Builders 
Hardware 
Mowjee / Crown / Everlite / Harrison / Godrej 

12 
Floor Springs / Door Closers / 
Accessories 
Hardwin / Godrej / Doorset  

13 
PVC False Ceiling 
Kumar Arch Tech Pvt. Ltd. / Accura / Saint Gobain / Modiguard 

14 

Gupsum 
board 
/ 
Calcium  
Silicate Board / Calsidicor 
Tiles in False Ceiling / Wall 
Lining 

Armstrong / India Gypsum / Lafarge / Gypstone / Saint Gobain / 
Everest 

15 
Mineral Fibre False Ceiling 
Armstrong Gyroe [Saint Gobain] / Twiga Insulation / UP Twiga Fibre 
Glass Ltd. / Llyod Insulation 

16 
Metal False Ceiling 
Armstrong / Unifloors / Nittobo 

17 
Cement Fibre Board Ceiling 
Everest / Lafarge / Armstrong 

18 

Anodised Aluminium Partition 
System with Solid / Glazed 
Panel 

Jindal / Hindalco / Indalco 

19 
Frameless 
Glass 
Partition 
System / Wall Paneling 
Saint Gobain Glass / IAG / Kesarbrand by M/s Kesar safety glass 

20 
PVC 
Partition 
and 
Wall 
Paneling 

Kumar Arch Tech Pvt. Ltd / Rajashri Plastiwood Ltd., / Duro plast / 
Sintex India Ltd. / Commander 

21 
PVC 
Kitchen 
[Cupboards, 
Cabinets & Wardrobes] 
Kumar Arch Tech Pvt. Ltd /   M/s Rajshri Plastiwood  /  Sintex 

22 
Rigid Foam PVC Sheets from 
0.5mm to 40mm thickness 
Kumar Arch Tech Pvt. Ltd / Rajashri Plastiwood Ltd. / Sintex / Marino 

23 

Prelaminated 
PVC 
Sheets 
from 
0.5mm 
to 
40mm 
thickness 

Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd / Rajashri Plastiwood Ltd.  / Sintex / 
Hindopan / Marino 

24 
Prefabricated PVC Hut & Bath 
Rooms 
Kumar Arch Tech Pvt. Ltd / Prestar / Sintex / Marino 

25 

Galvanised Colour / Powder 
Coated 
Steel 
Windows, 
Doors, 
Partition 
and 
Structural Glazing 

NCL Alltek & Seccolor Ltd. / Armstrong / Nittobo 

26 
Aluminium Composite Panel 
Alstone International / Alumnium Tech Industries / Modern Fittings  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 473 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

 

27 
Polycarbonate Sheets 
Prestar Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. / GE / Fibreways Technology 

28 
CP Bath Fittings 
Jaquar & Company Pvt. Ltd. / Marc / Kohler / Cera / Parryware / Grohe 
/ Crabtree / Blue Star & Silver Shine 

29 

Stainless Steel Towel Rail / 
Towel Rack/ Towel Ring/ 
Soap Disc/TPH 

Jaquar & Company Pvt. Ltd. / Marc / Kohler / Cera / Parryware   

30 
Wash Basins / WCs 
Jaquar & Company Pvt. Ltd. / Kohler / Roca / Cera [First Quality] / 
Hindware [Italian Collection] / Parryware [Superfine] / Johnson Pedder  

31 
SS Wash Basins & WCs 
Diamond / Nirali/ M/s Bluestar sanitary Industries Pvt. Ltd / Kohler 

32 
Designer Bath Suits 
Jaquar & Company Pvt. Ltd / Cera / Parryware     

33 
Stainless Steel Kitchen Sink 
Jain Brothers Sanitation Pvt. Ltd. / Cera / Blue Star & Silver Shine / 
Kohler/ M/s Prayag Polymers (p) Ltd.  

34 

PTMT Float Valves / Ball 
Cocks, 
Cockroach 
Traps, 
Glass Shelf, Bath Fittings/ SS 
Door Hinges & Hardware 

Prayag Polymer Pvt. Ltd. / Polytuff / Neelkanth / Shakti  

35 
SS Plate Rack 
Suyog / Prayag/ M/s Bluestar    

36 
Kitchen Cabinets and Trolleys 
Godrej Interio / Zuari / Kitchen Concepts / Dream Kitchens / Kitchen 
Crafts 

37 
Concealed Cisterns 
Kohler / Grohe / Hindware / Jaquar 

38 
Normal or Dual-Flow PVC 
Flushing Cistern 
Hindware / Cera / Parryware / Commander  

39 
Glass Mirror 
Prayag / Zircon / Cera / Saint Gobain / Modiguard  

40 
PVC / Acrylic Toilet Mirror 
Cabinet 
Parryware / Polytuff / Commander / Cera 

41 

Stainless Steel Towel Rail / 
Towel Rack / Towel Ring / 
Soap Dish / Toilet Paper 
Holder 

Kohler / Grohe / Jaquar / Blue Star & Silver Shine / Cera 

42 
Toilet Seat Cover 
Commander / Parryware / Cera / Hindware / Jaquar/  M/s Prayag 
Polymers (p) Ltd.   

43 
Shower Panels 
Grohe / Kohler / Jaquar / Lauret 

44 
Bath Suits 
Kohler / Grohe / Jaquar  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 474 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

 

45 
Glass WHB 
Zircon / Sparkle Glass / Seabird 

46 
Glass 
Frameless 
Shower 
Enclosures / Cubicles 
Cera / Hindware / Lauret / Jaquar 

47 
Acrylic Washable Distemper 
Berger [Jadoo] / Nerolac / British Paint / Jotun India Pvt Ltd / Velvet 
Acrylic Distemper [Crimson Paints Pvt Ltd.] 

48 
Plastic Emulsion Paint 
Berger [Silk] / ICI [Dulux Velvet Touch] / Shalimar Paints / Asian Paint 
Ltd. / Nerolac Paints Ltd. /  Jotun India Pvt Ltd 

49 
Synthetic 
Enamel 
Paint 
/ 
Acrylic Paint 

Shalimar Paints Ltd. [Superlac] / Asian [Apcolite] / Berger [Luxol] / 
Jenson & Nicholson Paints Ltd [Brolac] / Jotun India Pvt Ltd 

50 
Cement Based Paint 
Snowcem Plus / Berger / Asian Paints [Gutucam] / Jotun India Pvt Ltd / 
Crimocem Super Cement Paints 

51 
Exterior 
Acrylic 
Emulsion 
Weather Coat Paint 

Apex Ultima [Asian] / Extra Maxium Ultra [Shalimar] / Weather Coat 
[Berger Paints Ltd.] / Dulax / Royal Acrylic [Crimson Paints Pvt Ltd.] / 
Jotun India Pvt Ltd 

52 
French Polish 
Berger / Jenson & Nicholson Paints Ltd / Asian / Jotun India Pvt Ltd 

53 
Thermoplastic Road Marking 
Paint / Retro-Reflective Paint 

Asian Apcomark / STP / Shalimar Paints Ltd. / Berger Paints Ltd. / 
Jenson & Nicholson Paints Ltd / Jotun India Pvt Ltd 

54 
Water Based Road Marking 
Paint 
Jotun India Pvt Ltd / Berger / Asian Apcotrak / Shalimar 

55 
Acid Resistant Paint 
Asian / Berger / Jotun India Pvt Ltd 

56 
Epoxy Paint / Polyurethane 
Paint 

Fosroc / Pidilite / Asian / Berger / Johnson & Nicholson / Jotun India 
Pvt Ltd 

57 
Black Bituminous Paint 
Asian / Berger / Jotun India Pvt Ltd 

58 
White Cement / Wall Putty 
Birla Laval Plast / Berger / J & N / Shalimar Paints / Asian Paints 

59 
PMB 
( 
Polymer 
Modified 
Bitumen) 

M/s OOMS Polymer Modified Bitumen Pvt. Ltd. / M/s Hindustan Coalas 
Ltd.  

60 

Ply Wood / Prelaminated Ply 
Wood / Marine Ply Wood / 
Veneered Decorative Plywood 
/ Structural Plywood / Fire 
Retardant Plywood 

Greenply Industries [Ply & Board Division] / Kitply / Century / National 
Plywood Industries Pvt. Ltd. /  Sylvan Ply / Archid Ply 

61 
Veneered Plain Particle Board 
/ Prelaminated Particle  Board 

Greenply Industries [Ply & Board Division] / Kitply / Anchor / Bhutan 
Board / Novapan / Associate Décor /  Archidply  

62 
Gypsum Board 
Lafarge / Gypsum India Ltd / Armstrong / USG / Gyproc 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 475 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

 

63 
MDF / HDF Boards 
Greenply Industries Ltd [Engineered Panel Division] / Balaji Action 
Buildwell / Novapan / National / Kitply 

64 

Glazed Vitrified Floor Tiles, 
Polished Vitrified Floor Tiles, 
Ceramic Glazed Wall Tiles, 
Ceramic Glazed Floor Tiles, 
Wall Tiles, Floor and Wall 
Tiles of any Size and Type / 
Nonskid Ceramic Tiles 

Kajaria Ceramics Ltd / Asian Granito India Ltd / Somany Ceramics 
Limited / Varmora Granito Pvt Ltd / H & R Johnson India Ltd /  

65 
Precast Concrete Interlocking 
Paving Blocks 

Anjali Tiles / Ultra Tiles Pvt Ltd / Terra Firma / Ecco Scope / Mehtab 
Tiles 

66 
Precast Plain / Chequered 
Cement Tiles for Flooring 
Ultra / Bansal / Nitco / Anjali / Multiwyn 

67 
Precast Terrazzo Tiles for 
Flooring 
Johnson / Ultra Tiles Pvt Ltd / Nitco 

68 
Wooden 
Laminated 
Floor 
Tiles / Parquet Tiles 
Vista / Pergo / Haro 

69 
Glazed Mosaic Tiles 
Hindustan Tiles / Johnson / Ultra Tiles Pvt Ltd / National Tiles & 
Industries / Coral / Ceco 

70 
Heavy Duty Exterior Vitrified 
Tiles 

Johnson [Endura] / Multiwyn / Century / Cristal / Somany [Durastone] / 
Orient Bell Ltd. 

71 
Glazed 
Porcelain 
Elevation 
Wall Tiles 
Century Porselato / Porselato / Porcelain / Crystal Porcelain 

72 
Acid Resistant Vitrified Tiles 
Johnson [Endura] / Somany [Durastone] / Asian Granito / Kajaria 

73 
Metallic Floor Hardener for 
Wear Proof Topping 
Ironite / Stillonite / Hardonate 

74 
Non-Metallic Floor Hardener 
for Wear Proof Topping 
Fosroc / Fibrex / Sika / BASF 

75 
Epoxy Resin / Polyurethane 
Based Floor Coating 
Sika / Fosroc / BOSTIK India / STP 

76 
Tile Adhesive 
Pidilite Industries Ltd / Somany Ceramics Limited / Kajaria / Latecreat 

77 

Punched Tape Concertina Coil 
and Flat Wrap Weld Mesh for 
Fencing 

Global Technocrats Pvt Ltd/ A-1 Fence Products Company Pvt Ltd  / 
Shiva Engg Co. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 476 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

 

78 
Pressed Steel Frames 
for 
Doors / Windows / Ventilators 

BA Enterprises / Multiwyn Industrial Corporation / Doorwyn Industries / 
Modern Fabricator / Madhu Industries / Ajanta Ispat / Alusys 

79 
Anodised / Powder Coated 
Aluminium Frames 
Jindal / Hindalco / Ajit India / Indal 

80 
Aluminium Doors / Windows 
[Solid  / Glazed Panel] 

Jindal / Hindalco / Balco / Modern Fabricator / Alumilite Pvt Ltd. / Ajit 
India Pvt Ltd 

81 
Frameless Glass Door 
Kesar / Super Aluminium / Haresh Aluminium 

82 

Metal Rolling Shutters and 
Rolling Grills / Collapsible 
Gates 

BA Enterprises / Multiwyn Industrial Corporation / Doorwyn Industries / 
Modern Fabricator  

83 
Plain Sheet Glass / Float Glass 
/ Frosted Glass 

Saint Gobain Glass / Modiguard Float Glass / Asahi India / Hindustan 
Pilkington Glass / Triveni Float Glass / IAG 

84 
Toughened Glass / Laminated 
Glass 

Safex / Saint Gobain Glass / Modiguard Float Glass / Kesar / Asahi India 
/ Atul Tuf / Hindustan Pilkington Glass / Triveni Float Glass  

85 
Solar 
Control 
& 
Thermal 
Insulation Glass 
SGG EVO / Evolite / Envision 

86 
Wired Glass 
Saint Gobain Glass / Modiguard Float Glass / Triveni / Safex / Atul Tuf / 
Hindustan Pilkington Glass / Kesar 

87 
Black Painted Glass Tiles 
Kesar / Marvel / Dreamwalls Color Glass / Paladio / Italia / Mridul / 
Mehtab Tiles  

88 
Tinted / Coloured Glass 
Saint Gobain / Modiguard / Hindustan Pilkington glass 

89 
Glass Top Shelves 
Kesar / Ozone / Sparkle Glass 

90 

Cat Eyes / Studs [Metal / 
Plastic] 
/Rumble 
Strips 
/Speed Breakers 

3M / Dark Eye / Green lite 

91 
Delineators / Road Barriers 
3M / Dark Eye / Green lite 

92 
Road Signage 
3M / Dark Eye / Green lite 

93 
HDPE / LDPE Water Tanks 
(Three layered) 
Sintex / Polycon / Oriplast / Jindal 

94 
UPVC / PPR / HDPE Pipe  
Jain Irrigation / Kisan / Prince / Supreme / Oriplast / Finolex / Diplast 

95 
RCC Pipes [NP2 / NP3] 
Indian Hume Pipes / Everest / Himalaya / Thuluvananikal Pipes 

96 
CI / DI Centrifugally Cast 
[Spun] Pipes & Fittings 

Neco Centri / BIC / Electro Steel Casting Ltd. / AIC / PIC / Jai Balaji 
Industries / Srikalahasti Pipes Ltd. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 477 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

 

97 
PVC Soil / Waste / Rain Water 
[SWR] Pipes and Fittings 
Jain Irrigation / Kisan / Supreme / Prince / Anant / Oriplast 

98 
CPVC / UPVC Pipes and 
Fittings  

Astral / Ashirwad Flowguard / Kisan / Reliance / Supreme / Prince/  M/s 
Prayag Polymers (p) Ltd  

99 
HDPE Pipes and Fittings 
[Water] 
Kisan / Jain Irrigation / Supreme / Prince / Oriplast / Ajay Flow 

100 
Brass Ball [Float] Valve 
Leader / Kirloskar / Zoloto 

101 
CI Manhole Covers 
AIC / PIC / Singhal Iron Foundary 

102 
PGI Sheet 
Tata / Jindal / SAIL 

103 
Galvalume / Zincalume Sheet 
for Roof and Wall 
Tata Bluescope / Bhushan / Jindal 

104 

PVC Insulated Cable up to 
1100 Volts Copper / 
Aluminium Conductor, 
Sheathed / Unsheathed as 
per IS – 694 

Havells / Finolex / Nicco / KEI / Polycab / RR Kabel Ltd / Asian (RPG)  / 
Universal / Goldmedal  

105 

PVC / XLPE Insulated PVC 
Sheathed 
Heavy 
Duty 
Armoured 
/ 
Unarmoured 
Cables up to 1100 Volts, 
Aluminium 
/ 
Copper 
Conductors, Solid / Stranded 
as per IS – 1554, Part–I & IS 
– 7098, Part–I. 

Havells /  Gloster Cables  / KEI Industries Ltd / Polycab / Asian (RPG) / 
Finolex / Universal / Goldmedal 

106 
HT XLPE Cables 
Havells / Asian [RPG] / CCI / Polycab / Finolex/  Gloster Cables / KEI 
Industries Ltd /  Universal 

107 
Other Category of Cables / 
ABC Cable 
Ravin Cables Ltd /  M/s Dynamic Cables Ltd. / KEI   

108 
CI Pipes 
Electrosteel / Kesoram / Tisco  

109 

DI Pipe, ISI Marked of bore 
80 to 1000mm [Except DN 
125 & 750mm] of Class K7, 
K8, & K9 Conforming to IS – 
8329] and Fittings 

Jindal / Electrosteel Casting Ltd. / Tata Metaliks / Tata Kabuto / SAW 
Pipes  

110 
ERW MS Pipes / GI Pipes / 
Fittings 
Tata / Jindal / Zenith  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 478 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

 

111 
PVC Pipes & Fittings 
Ori-Plast / Supreme / Prince / Finolex / Kisan Mouldings Ltd.  

112 
UPVC / CPVC / RWP Pipes 
Ori-Plast / Supreme / Prince / Finolex 

113 
UPVC Casing for Bore Wells 
Kisan Mouldings Limited Skipper / Finolex / Supreme  

114 
UPVC / PPR / HDPE Pipes and 
Fittings 
Kisan Mouldings Limited / Jain Irrigation Sustem / Finolex 

115 
PVC SWR Pipes 
Kisan Mouldings Limited / Supreme / Prince / Reliance 

116 
PPR Pipes & Fittings 

Savoir-Fair Manufacturing Co. Pvt Ltd / Reliance/ Finolex / Supreme/  
M/s Vectus Industries Ltd M/s SHK Polymers Industries / M/s Kanha 
Plastics Pvt Ltd  

117 

Composite Pipes / ASTM / 
Plumbing Pipes / Submersible 
Pipes / Micro Irrigation Pipes 
/ Casing Pipes / Underground 
Drainage Pipes / Hot & Cold 
Water Distribution System 

Kisan Mouldings Limited / Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd / Savoir-Fair 
Manufacturing Co. Pvt Ltd. 

118 
Conduit Steel ERW 
Tata / Jindal / Kalinga / BEC 

119 
Conduit PVC pipe 
Presto Plast / Finolex / Indo American Electricals Ltd / Kalinga Gold / 
Richa Cables Pvt. Ltd. / Goldmedal 

120 
PVC Casing Capping 
Presto Plast / Finolex / Kalinga / Payal  

121 
Flame Proof Fittings  
Bajaj / Crompton Greaves / Sudhir 

122 
Fluorescent Tube Light / CFL 
Fittings 

Philips / Crompton Greaves / Havells / Surya Roshni Ltd / Bajaj / Wipro 
/ C & S Electric Ltd 

123 

FTL / CFL / PLS / HPSV / 
HPMV /  Metal Halide Fittings 
/ Lamps [Outdoor Lighting] 

Philips / Crompton Greaves / Havells / Surya Roshni Ltd / Bajaj / Wipro 
/ C & S Electric Ltd 

124 
LED Light Fittings External / 
Internal 
Philips  /  Havells  /  Wipro  /  GE / Bajaj / Crompton Greaves   

125 
Switch Fuse / Changeover 
Switch 

L & T / Legrand / ABB / Siemens / GE / Schneider / Havells  /C&S / 
Goldmedal 

126 
MCBs / RCCB / RCBO & DB 
for MCBs / Isolator 

Legrand / L & T [Hager] / Siemens / ABB / C&S/ Schneider / GE / 
Havells / Goldmedal   

127 
MCCB / ACB 
Legrand / L & T / Siemens / ABB / C & S / Schneider / GE / Havells 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 479 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

 

128 

Switches / Switch Socket / 
Bell Push / Ceiling Rose / 
Regulator Piano Type / 
Buzzer / Bell 

Havells / Anchor / Legrand / Schneider / Goldmedal 

129 
Modular Type Switches 
/Sockets / Regulator 

 Anchor [Woods] / Legrand / RR Kabel Ltd. / MK Honey Wall / 
Schneider / C & S Electric / Havells / Goldmedal 

130 
Power Transformers 33 / 11 
KV 

BHEL / ABB / Siemens / Andrew Yule / Alstom / Schneider  / Bharat 
Bijlee 

131 

Transformers 11 KV, 
Distribution Type Step Down 
/ Up <400 KVA 

Voltamp /Crompton Greaves / ABB / Esennar Transformers (P) Ltd / 
Kanyaka Parameswari Engineering Ltd (KPEL) 

132 

Transformers 11 KV, 
Distribution Type Step Down 
/ Up ≥400 KVA 

BHEL / ABB / Siemens / Alstom / Schneider  / Crompton Greaves / 
Bharat Bijlee / Kanyaka Parameswari Engineering Ltd (KPEL) 

133 
Packaged / Unified Substation 
BHEL / ABB / Siemens / Andrew Yule / Schneider  / Crompton Greaves 

134 
VCB & SF6 [11 KV & 33 KV] & 
Ring Main Units 
BHEL / ABB / Areva T & D / Siemens / Andrew Yule / Schneider   

135 
Current & Potential 
Transformers [LT & HT] 
AE / English Electric / Crompton Greaves / Areva T & D / Schneider   

136 

Electronic Energy Meter 
[Tamper Proof with Optical 
Port] 

Siemens / L & T / Havells / HPL / Schneider   

137 

Electrical Instrumentation / 
Measuring Instruments Digital 
/ Analog / Energy Meters / 
Volt Meter / Ammeter 

Havells / HPL / L & T / AE / Schneider  

138 
Water Heater [Geyser] 
Bajaj / Usha / Crompton Greaves / Jaquar / Racold 

139 
Energy Saver 
Mega Energy Solutions / HPL / Schneider   

140 

Exhaust Fan / Ceiling Fan / 
Air Circulator / Wall Mounting 
Fan 

Crompton Greaves / Almonard / Bajaj / Orient / Havells  

141 
Capacitor Bank / APFC Panel 
ABB / C&S / Siemens [EPCOS] / L & T/ Schneider  /  M/s BCH Electric 
Limited    

142 
Thermoplastic Street Light 
Junction Box / DB 
Hensel / Sintex / C & S 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 480 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

 

143 
Nature Switch / Street Light 
Timer 
Legrand / L & T / Bajaj / Schneider / BCH 

144 

LT Switch Board Panel 
[Indoor Wall Mounted 
Prewired] 

Schneider / L & T / ABB / Havells / C & S 

145 
LT Control Panel / Feeder 
Pillar Box 
L & T / Milestone / Advance / Unilec / C & S / Schneider 

146 
Steel Tubular Poles 
Jindal Steel / National Tubing Co / Bombay Tubes & Store / Calcutta 
Poles & Tubes 

147 
Cable Joint LT & HT, Hot & 
Cold Shrinkable 
M-Seal 3M / Denson / Raychem 

148 
Air Break Switches / HT 
Isolators / Gang Switches 
Pactil / BHEL / Jaipuria Brothers 

149 
DSC / Pin Type Porcelain 
Insulators 
BHEL / Jaipuria Brothers / Pactil / Southern Insulators 

150 
Diesel Generating Set Engines 
 Kirloskar Green / Cummins / Ashok Leyland / Greaves Cotton  

151 
Alternator 
Alstom / Crompton Greaves / Kirloskar Electric / Siemens / Bharat Bijlee

152 
Lightning Arrester [Station 
Class] 
Oblum / Obo / Elpro / BHEL / Alstom / Jaipuria Brothers 

153 
ACSR Conductor 
Indian Aluminium Ltd / Alind / Bharat Conductors 

154 

Single Phase Preventor / 
Contactors / Thermal 
Overload Relay 

ABB / L & T / Siemens / C & S / Schneider / BCH 

155 
Battery Maintenance Free 
Exide / AMCO / Nicco / Amaron / Tata 

156 
Battery Chargers 
Escorp / Su-Kam / Microtek   

157 
Servo Control LT Voltage 
Stabiliser 
Voltamp / APLAB / Andrew Yule / Brentford / AE / Vintec [Volina] 

158 
HT Voltage Stabiliser [11 KV] 
Andrew Yule / Brentford / APLAB 

159 
Indicator Lamp / Selector 
Switch 
L & T / Siemens / GE / RR Micro /  Schneider / BCH 

160 

Sluice Valve / Reflux Valve / 
Air Release Valve / Foot Valve 
/ Non-Return Valve / Gate 
Valve / Butterfly Valve 

Kirloskar / Leader / Zoloto / Audco / Venus / Upadhaya  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 481 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

 

161 
DOL / Star-Delta/Soft Starter 
  BCH / Siemens / L & T / ABB / Schneider / C&S /BCH  

162 
Submersible Cable 
Finolex / Havells / RR Kabel / Polycab 

163 
Centrifugal Pumps 
Crompton Greaves / Kirloskar / KSB / Wilo Mather & Platt Pump Pvt 

164 
Submersible Pumps 
Crompton Greaves / Colama / KSB / Kirloskar / Wilo Mather & Platt 
Pump Pvt 

165 
Bleaching Dozer 
Ion Exchange / RMCO / Avon / Aquapura / Maic India 

166 
Chloronome Plant / 
Chlorinator 
Auqa / Pearl Filters / Jesco / Advance – 2000 

167 
PVC Overhead Tank [ISI 
Mark] (3 layered) 
Sintex / Polywell / Polycon 

168 
Electric Motors 
Crompton Greaves / Siemens / ABB / Kirloskar Electric / Havells 

169 
Monoblock Pumps/Diesel 
Engine driven Pumps  
Crompton Greaves / Kirloskar / KSB /  Wilo Mather & Platt Pump Pvt Ltd  

170 
Chiller Units / Compressors, 
Scroll / Screw Type 
Blue Star / Voltas / York / Kirloskar / Carrier / Daikin / Trane 

171 
Condenser & Chiller Pumps 
Crompton Greaves / Kirloskar / ABB 

172 
Cooling Towers 
Paharpur / Mihir / Delta 

173 
Cooling Coil / AHU 
Blue Star / Voltas / Zeco / Llyod 

174 
Filters 
Blue Star / Airtech / Thermodyne 

175 
Balancing Valves 
Leader / Audco / C & R / Advance 

176 
Refrigerant Controls 
Sporlan / ALCO / Honeywell / Danfoss / Jhonson Control 

177 
Strainer 
Rapid Control / Emberland / Sant  

178 
Insulation Crosslink 
Polyethylene with Adhesive 
Torcellen / Paramount / Thermoflex 

179 
Thermometers / Pressure 
Gauges 
Hguru / Taylor / Fiebig 

180 
Thermostat / Humidistat 
Honeywell / Jhonson Control / Danfoss / Siemens 

181 
Actuators 
Siemens / Rapid Control / Honeywell 

182 
Heaters 
Daspass / Racold / Bajaj 

183 
Thermostatic Expansion Valve 
Siemens / Honeywell / Danfoss 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 482 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

 

184 
Grills / Diffusers / Fire 
Dampers 
Caryaire / Mapro / Conaire 

185 
Split Type AC / Package Type 
AC / Window Type AC 
Blue Star / Hitachi / Daikin / Carrier / Voltas 

186 
Fire Pump / Jockey Pump / 
Booster Pump 
Crompton Greaves / Kirloskar / KSB / Wilo Mather & Platt Pump Pvt   

187 
Fire Hose Real 
Minimax / Firex / Safex 

188 
Stand Post Type Hydrant 
Minimax / Firex / Safex 

189 
RRL Hose Pipe 
Dunlop / Cosmos / Jayshree 

190 
Sprinkler Head 
Minimax / Tyco / Ceasefire / Safex 

191 
Pressure Switch 
Siemens / Honeywell / Danfoss / Schneider / Rapid Control 

192 
Fire Extinguisher [All Types] 
Minimax / Firex / Newage / Cease Fire 

193 

 

Single Head Landing Valves 
Three / Four Way Brigade 
Inlet Hose Reel Drum and 
Shut-Off Nozzle 

Minimax / Safex / Superex 

194 
20mm dia Rubber Pipe 
Jyothi / Dunlop / Minimax 

195 
Hooter 
Safex / Honeywell / Mnimax 

196 
APP 
 
Modified 
Polymeric 
Membrane 

Stp Limited  / Sika India Pvt Ltd / Fosroc Chemicals / IWL India Pvt Ltd 
/ Asian Paints / Torchtar Memberance & Bitumen Products / Tiki tar 
Danosa (I) Pvt Ltd / Shivan Tar Products  
197 
EOT Cranes / HOT Cranes 
Tyojam / Anupam / Mukund / Jessop / WMI / Dinesh Enterprises. 

198 
LLDPE Septic tanks 
Sintex/Suprem 

199 
Lift 

Kone India/ Schindler India Pvt Ltd. / Kinetic Hyundai Elevator & 
Movement Technologies Ltd / Hitachi Lifts India Pvt Ltd / Mistubishi 
Elevator India Private Limited / Otis Elevator Company India Ltd / 
Fujitech India PVt Ltd /Thyseenkrupp Elevators India Pvt Ltd 

200 
Motor 
Actuated 
Butterfly 
Valve 

Kirloskar / Emtork / Hasel / Hofener / Ritetork / Inter Valve / Weir Bdk 

201 
PLC PANELS 
Siemens / Schneider / ABB / Rockwell  

202 
Solar Water System 
Tata – BP Solar System / BHEL / Jain Solar / Best & Crompton Noval 
Energy Delhi 

203 
Water Meter 
Capstan / Dashmesh / Kaycee / Capital / Kirloskar 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 483 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

204 
High Mast Light & Pole 
Bajaj / Phillips / Crompton / Crompton Greaves 

205 
Ammeter 
/ 
Voltmeter 
/ 
Frequency Meter 
IMP / Automatic Electric /L&T / Havells / MECO 

206 
Precast Cable Covers 
Mehtab / Lucky Cement Blocks/ Sukhi Enterprises 

207 
Hydraulic Door Closer 
Everite / Universal / Prabhat Door King / Perfect Hydraulic / Dyana 

208 
Mortice Locks 
Harrison / Godrej & Boyce Co Ltd / KICH / RP Lock Co 

209 
Steel 
Rolling 
Shutters 
/ 
Collapsible 

Shree Lakshmi Engg Works / M/s Prakash & Co. / M/s Senthil Rolling 
Shutters / M/s Swastik Rolling Shutters / M/s Jayaraj Industries 

210 
Indicating Lamps  
L&T / Siemens / AE / Bhartia Industries 

211 
Refrigerator / Water Cooler / 
Deep freezer 
Blue Star / Hitachi / Voltas 

212 
Aviation Obstruction light 
Havells / Bajaj / CG/ Phillips  

213 
UPS 
Tata – Liebert / Aplab / Luminous / Sukam 

214 
Type tested panels  
Schneider / ABB/ Siemens / BCH / C&S 

215 
Cable Tray 
Legrand/Sumip/C&S/Hind Runway System/Patny System / Obo 

216 
Track & Curtain System 
Vista Levolor / MAC / Aerolux /  

217 
Water Proofing Compound 
Pidilite Industries Ltd Taloja / FOSROC / Dr Fixit / Asianpaints 

218 
PA rack for Amplifiers 
Walrack / Ritta / Ahuja 

219 
Filters 
Blue Star / Airtech / Thermodyne 

220 
Chloronome 
Plant 
/ 
Chlorinator 

Auqa / Pearl Filters / Jesco / Advance – 2000 

221 
Bleaching Dozer 
Ion Exchange / RMCO / Avon / Aquapura / Maic India 

222 
UPVC / PPR / HDPE Pipe for 
Sewage 

Jain Irrigation / Kisan / Prince / Supreme / Oriplast / Finolex / Diplast 

223 
RCC Pipes [NP2/NP3] 
Any ISI Marked  

224 
Road Furniture 
3M / Dark Eye / Apolo 

225 
Wooden flooring 
Vista / Pergo / Haro 

226 
Glazed Mosaic Tiles 
Hindustan Tiles / Johnson / Ultra Tiles Pvt Ltd / National Tiles & 
Industries / Coral / Ceco 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 484 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

227 
Metallic Floor Hardener for 
Wear Proof Topping 

Ironite / Stillonite / Hardonate 

228 
Non-Metallic Floor Hardener 
for Wear Proof Topping 

Fosroc / Fibrex / Sika / BASF 

229 

Epoxy Resin / Polyurethane 
Based Floor Coating / Synthic 
floor / Rubber floor 

Sika / Fosroc / BASF / Pidilite Industries 

230 
Tile Adhesive 
Pidilite Industries Ltd / Somany Ceramics Limited / Kajaria / Latecrete 

231 
Admixtures  
 Sika / Fosroc / BASF / Pidilite Industries / Asianpaints 

232 
Wall Panel Backed for OT 
TATA/SAIL/ Jindal Steel  

233 
Pendent 
AKTIV/JK ENGINEERS/GM MEDICAL 

234 
Sliding Doors 
Metaflex, Ownic, Mediline 

235 
Medical Gas pipeline 
Copper Pipe‐ Max‐flow/ Rajko/ Metalco/MANDEV Copper Fittings‐ 
Conex Banninger (IBP Conex)/ Muller/ Yorkshire/Mehta tube 

236 
Filling of all jonts and cavities 
with epoxy filler 

SKK /Berger/Asian paints (Royale health shield) 

237 
Pressure Relief Damper 
GM MEDICAL/ JK ENGINEERS/TROX 

238 
Operation 
Theatre 
Control 
Panel 

AKTIV/JK/MPS 

239 

3 Bay Scrub station / Dirty 
hatch box / X‐ Ray viewing 
screen 

ALCON MEDITECH/JK/MPS 

240 
Laminar Planair Ceiling  
JK/MPS/AKTIV TECHNOLOGIES 

241 
OT CEILING LIGHT 
Simeon/ Dragger/ Maquet/STERIS 

242 
OT Electrical wiring 
Finolex / Havells / Skytone 

243 
MEDICAL 
GAS 
PIPELINE 
SYSTEM 

Oxicare engineers / Global mediLife solution / Hi- tech med gas 
solutions / Aktiv / Sreekrishna / WTK /  

244 
IP CCTV Cameras / PTZ 
Keyboard 

SONY / BOSCH /AXIS / TYCO/ PELCO/ PANASONIC 

245 
Work Station / NVR Server 
SONY / BOSCH /AXIS / TYCO/ PELCO / PANASONIC/HP/DELL 

246 
CCTV Storage HDD 
Dell / IBM / HP / NetApp/ EMC/ AXIS 

247 
LED Monitor 
Panasonic / Samsung / Sony / LG/HP/Dell 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 485 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Ser 
No. 
Materials 
Make/Name Of Firms 

 

248 
PTZ Digital Joystick 
Sony / Bosch /Tyco / Pelco/ AXIS 

249 
Network, POE Switches 
Cisco / Allied Telesis / HP / Huawei / Juniper 

250 
VMS 
(Video 
Management 
Software ) 

Nice / Milestone / Genetec 

251 
Racks 
President / Rittal / Valrack 

252 
CAT 6 Cable & Accessories 
Schneider Electric‐Digilink / CommScopeSystimax / Panduit‐Pannet/ 
Legrand 

253 
OFC cable and Accessories 
Belden / D Link / Tyco/ Molex/Siemon/Systemacs 

254 
DWC Pipe 
REX / Duraline/Tirupati 

255 
MDF 
Krone/Delton/Poweride 

256 
EPBAX System 
Cisco/Avaya/Tadiran 

257 
Telephone Handsets 
Siemens/Panasonic/GE 

258 
All other items 
 ISI Marked as approved by GE 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(T Venkata Ratnam) 
Signature of contractor 
 
 
 
 
 
DD (Contracts)               
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for Accepting Officer  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 486 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
41. 
MATERIALS AND TESTS:   

41.1. 
If facility for testing of building materials for any particular test in not available in the Site / Command 
Testing Lab, the same will be got tested in National Test House / SEMT Wing / Government Approved 
Laboratories / NABL Accredited Laboratories / Regional Research Laboratories / IIT / National Institute of 
Technology at the discretion of Garrison Engineer, All expenses for testing shall be borne by the 
contractor. 

41.2. 
The materials listed hereinafter shall be tested as per the frequency indicated therein. 

41.3 
Level of testing shown in legend as A, B & C are defined as under: 

41.4. 
LEVEL "A":  "Site Lab" means own site lab established by Contractor at the work site for such tests.  This 
lab shall house all the facilities including T & P, machinery, equipment, and manpower etc., required for 
conducting tests. Competent technical representative as approved by the GE shall be employed by the 
contractor to man the laboratory. This lab shall be operative for the entire duration of the contract till its 
completion.  Tests shall be carried out in the presence of Engineer-in-Charge to be nominated by GE or 
any other departmental official to be nominated by the GE.  Random check of compliance of frequency of 
testing shall be done by GE. Setting up site laboratory is mandatory for all works costing Rs. 1.00 Crore 
and above. The contractor may at his option set up site laboratory for works costing less than Rs. 1.00 
Crore also without any extra cost to Government. 

[a] 
Record shall be maintained at work site. These test results shall be signed by contractor or his 
authorized representative and aforesaid departmental official. Random check shall be done by GE 
also and GE shall also sign the same in token of the check. 

[b] 
Within 15 days of placement of work order No 1, site lab shall be established and fact reported by 
the contractor to GE in writing who will verify the fact and satisfy himself of the facilities provided. 
Thereafter, GE shall issue a certificate to this effect in writing listing out equipment particulars 
etc., of each material test.  Only after issue of this certificate by GE, the tests shall be carried out 
and materials so approved shall be incorporated in the work. 

[c] 
Manpower, material and infrastructure like electricity, water etc., required for conducting these 
tests shall be provided by the contractor. Tenderer is deemed to cater for above provisions in his 
quoted Lumpsum. 

[d] 
Remedial measures, if any, required to achieve/obtain desired results for each test shall be taken 
promptly by contractor.  Lumpsum is deemed to include for this eventuality and nothing extra 
shall be payable to the contractor.  No extension of time shall be admissible on this account. 

[e] 
Rate per test given is applicable for recovery in case of unavoidable circumstances where some 
tests as laid down could not be done and in the opinion of the GE nonperformance of tests does 
not affect quality control.  However, in case, GE in his opinion considers that contractor is 
purposely not adhering to laid down frequencies of tests, he shall reserve the right to get it tested 
in Command Testing Lab or any other lab as deemed fit and make penal recovery from RAR 
which shall be double the rate of testing charges indicated or testing charges actually paid to lab 
whichever is higher. GE’s decision, in this regard, shall be final and binding. 

41.5. 
LEVEL "B":  " Command Testing Lab " means any lab of MES. 

[a] 
The tests shall be conducted as per frequencies laid down for these tests in these labs for which 
contractor shall provide all requisite facilities like samples, cubes, material etc., transportation to 
these labs for testing purpose. It will be contractor’s responsibility to adhere to the laid down 
frequency of testing.  Test results shall be sent by lab to the GE whose copies can be made by 
contractor at his own expense. Testing charges for the tests so conducted shall be recovered at 
the rates indicated from the running payments. The contractor’s quoted Lumpsum is deemed to 
include for above provision. 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 487 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[b] 
Provision of Para [f] above of Level "A" shall be applicable to Level "B" also 

41.6. 
LEVEL "C":  Level "C" lab stands for National Test House / SEMT Wing / Government Approved 
Laboratories / NABL Accredited Laboratories / Regional Research Laboratories / IIT / National Institute of 
Technology where such facilities exist. 

[a] 
Test provision contained in Para [a] of Level "B" above shall be applicable here except that 
contractor shall make necessary arrangement for transportation etc., to hand over the samples to 
these labs.  Test results shall be forwarded to GE by these labs directly.  The testing charges 
payable to these labs for conducting these tests shall be borne by the contractor and his quoted 
Lumpsum is deemed to include this provision. 

[b] 
Provision of Para [f] above of Level "A" shall be applicable to Level "C" also. 

41.7. 
In case the contractor has not set up the site laboratory and the tests are carried out in Command 
Testing Lab or any other laboratory, the recovery shall be made at the applicable rates indicated 
hereinafter. 

41.8. 
In case non availability of testing facilities in MES Lab, the tests shall be conducted in any outside 
approved labs.  Testing charges of materials/cubes carried out in approved laboratory shall be as per 
actual and shall be directly borne by the contractor. 

41.9. 
The contractor is to provide the following tentative list of equipment at site lab with all the equipment, as 
per relevant IS all as mentioned in the list of material and their tests as per PS.  However, the list of 
equipment is not exhaustive.  The actual equipment to be provided shall be all as approved by GE.  The 
cost of the same is deemed to be inclusive of the rates quoted against Schedule "A". 

41.10.  LIST OF SUGGESTED ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT: 

Ser 

No 
Name of Equipment 

1 
Cube Mould [150 +/ –  0.2mm] – 12 Nos 

2 
Tamping Bar [16mm dia, 600 mm long] 

3 
Balance 12 Kg [LC 1 gm] 

4 
Balance 220 gm [LC 0.001 gm] digital 

5 
Weights 

6 
Compression Testing machines with three gauge [capacity 2000KN] 

7 
Slump Test Apparatus 

8 
Standard Test Sieve [80 to 4.75mm] Square hole, perforated plate 

9 
Standard Test Sieve [3.35mm to 75 micron] fine mesh, wire cloth. 

10 
Soft brush & Camel hair brush 

11 
Lid & Pan 

12 
Hot air oven [Thermostatically controlled] 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 488 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

13 
Thickness Gauge 

14 
Measuring Cylinders [graduated] 

15 
Steel Tape [LC 1 mm], Steel scale [Lc.5 mm] 

16 
Plywood sheet [2 No.] 3mm thick 

17 
Dish [180mm, 180mm, 40mm] of glass or porcelain of glazed stoneware 

18 
Distilled water 

19 
Moulds for casting concrete beams for testing flexural strength. 

20 
Relevant IS Codes 

21 
Concrete Hammer 

22 
Hand Penetro Meter 

23 
Vicat Apparatus 

24 
Vernier Caliper 

25 
Micrometer 

26 
Indian Standard Sand 

27 
Cube Moulds For Cement Testing 

28 
Stop Watch 

29 
Cement Cube Vibrator 

30 
Thermometer up to 300⁰C 

31 
Sieve Shaker for Coarse Aggregate Test Sieve 

32 
Sieve Shaker for Fine Aggregate Test Sieve 

33 
Thermometer for Hot Bitumen 

34 
Thermometer for Recording Day Temp  

35 
Humidity Recorder Meter 

36 
Timber Moisture Content Meter. 

37 
Field Procter Density Test Equipment 

38 
Cement Testing Machine for Initial / Final Setting / Consistency. 

39 
Working Platform. 

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 489 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

MATERIAL TESTS AND THEIR RECOVERY RATES OF TES T ING  C HAR G E S 

LEGEND 

A  
: 
Site Lab  

B 
: 
Command Testing Lab 
 

C 
: 
National Test House / SEMT Wing / Government Approved Laboratories / NABL 
Accredited Laboratories / Regional Research Laboratories / IIT / National Institute of 
Technology 

Note: List of tests given hereunder is not final. Other tests required as per MES Schedule / BIS to 
satisfy the quality requirement will also be got done by the GE and necessary expenditure for the 
same shall be borne by the contractor. 

Se

r 
No

Materi

als 
Test 
Method of 

Testing 
Frequency of Tests 

Leve

l of 
Test 

Rate 

per 
Test 

Remarks

1. 
Brick 

Compressive 

Strength 

IS – 3495 

[Part – II] 

As per IS – 5454 as given under: 
A 
180.00 

Checks 
for visual 

and 
Dimensio

nal 
characteri

stics shall 

also be 
carried 

out as 
per IS - 

5454 

Water 
Absorption 

IS – 3495 

[Part – II] 

Lot Size  Sample 

Size 

Permissible Nos 

of defective 

bricks 
A 
150.00 

1001 to 

10000 
5 
0 

Efflorescenc

e 

IS – 3495 

[Part – I] 

10001 

to 
35000 

10 
0 

A 
180.00 
35001 

to 
50000 

15 
1 

2. 

Coarse 
Aggreg

ate 

Sieve 
Analysis 

IS – 2386 

[Part – I] 

One test for every 15 Cu.m of 
aggregates or part thereof brought 

to site. 

A 
120.00 

 

Flakiness 

Index 

IS – 2386 

[Part – I] 

One test for every 15 Cu.m of 
aggregates or part thereof brought 

to site. 

A 
90.00 

Estimation 

of 
Deleterious 

Materials 

IS – 2386 

[Part – I] 

One test for every 100 Cu.m of 

aggregate or part thereof 
A 
120.00 

Organic 
Impurities 

IS – 2386 

[Part – I] 

One test per source of supply 
C 
120.00 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 490 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Moisture 

Content 

IS – 2386 

[Part – II] 

Regularly as Required 
A 
120.00 

 

Specific 

Gravity 

IS – 2386 

[Part – II] 

One test for each source of supply 
B 
120.00 

3. 

Fine 
Aggreg

ate 

Sieve 
Analysis 

IS – 2386 

[Part – I] 

One test for every 15 cum of FA or 

part thereof when brought to site 
A 
180.00 

 

Test For 
Clay, Silt 

and 
Impurities 

IS – 2386 

[Part – I] 

One test for every 15 cum of FA or 

part thereof when brought to site 
A 
90.00 

Specific 

Gravity 

IS – 2386 

[Part – II] 

One for each source of supply 
B 
180.00 

Test For 

Organic 
Impurities 

IS – 2386 

[Part – II] 

One test for each source of supply 
C 
180.00 

Moisture 

Content 

IS – 2386 

[Part – II] 

Regularly as required subject to 2 

tests/ per day when being used. 
A 
180.00 
 

4. 
Cement 

Setting Time 

IS – 4031 – 
63 Reaffirmed 

1980 

Once for each consignment or as 

and when Required 
B 
180.00 

 

Soundness 

IS – 4031 – 
63 Reaffirmed 

1980 

Once for each consignment or as 

and when Required 
B 
120.00 

Compressive 

Strength 

IS – 4031 – 
63 Reaffirmed 

1980 

Once for each consignment or as 

and when Required 
B 
360.00 

Fineness 

IS – 4031 – 
63 Reaffirmed 

1980 

Once for each consignment or as 

and when Required. 
B 
120.00 

5. 

Structur

al 
Concret

e 

[M – 15 

Grade 

& 
above] 

Slump Test 

Or 
Compacting 

Factor Test 
Or Vee–Bee 

Time 

IS – 1119 

The Min frequency of sampling of 
concrete of each grade shall be as 

under: 

A 
180.00 

Random 

sample 
shall be 

carried 

out to 

cover 
mixing 
units. As 

per IS – 

Compressive 

Strength 
IS – 516 

Quantity of 
Concrete in 

the work 

No of samples 
A 
120.00 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 491 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

[Cu.m] 
456 – 

2000 
Clause. 

14 for 
frequency 

of 
sampling. 

1  –  5 
1 

6  –  15 
2 

16  –  30 
3 

31  –  50 
4 

51 and above 

4+1 for each 
Additional 50 

Cu.m or part 

thereof 

6. 

Cement 
Flooring 

Tiles / 
Terrazz

o Tiles 

Water 
Absorption 

IS – 1237 

[Appendix 

“D”] 

6 Tiles out of 18 
B 
180.00 

Samples: 

18 Tiles 
from each 

source of 

supply 
selected 

at 
Random. 

Wet 
Transverse 

Strength 

IS – 1237 

[Appendix 

“E”] 

6 Tiles out of 18 
B 
144.00 

Resistance 

To Wear 

IS – 1237 

[Appendix 

“F”] 

6 Tiles out of 18 
C 
540.00 

7. 
Timber 

Specific 
Gravity& 

Weight 

IS – 1708 – 

1960 
Minimum 3 samples from a lot of 4 

Cum or 250 pieces of seasoned 

timber 

B 
120.00 

 

Moisture 

Content 

IS – 1708 – 

1960 
A 
120.00 

8. 

Water 

For 
Constru

ction 
Purpose

Test For 

Acidity 

IS – 456 & 

IS – 3015 

Once at the stage of approval of 

source of water 

B 
240.00 

Also refer 
clause 4.3 

of IS – 
456 and 

its  
subseque

nt sub 
clauses 
regarding 
suitability 

of water 

Test For 
Alkalinity 

IS – 456 & 

IS – 3015 

B 
240.00 

Test For 

Solid 
Content 

IS – 456 & 

IS – 3015 

C 
300.00 

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 492 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

MATERIAL TESTS AND THEIR RECOVERY RATES OF TESTING CH AR GES  [ C o nti n u e d ] 

Se

r 
No

Material

s 
Test 
Method of 

Testing 
Frequency of Tests 

Lev

el 
of 
Tes

t 

Rate 

per 
Test 

Remarks 

9. 

Welding 

of Steel 

Work 

Visual 
Inspection 

Test. 

IS –822 – 

1970 

Clause – 7.1 

100% by visual inspection 

Wor

k 
site 

360.00 

Specialised 
tests, their 

method 

and 
frequency 

to be 
decided on 
considerati

on of their 
importance 

by the 
Accepting 

Officer 

10. 

Timber 
Panelled 
& Glazed 

Door/ 
Window 
Shutters 
[Includin
g Factory 

Made 
Shutter] 

Dimensions, 

Sizes 
Workmanshi

p & Finish 

IS – 1003 

[Part – I] 

Frequency of sampling from each 

lot shall be as under: 

A 
180.00 

 

Lot size 
Sample Size 

26 to 50 
5 

51 to 100 
8 

101 to 150 
13 

151 to 300 
20 

301 to 500 
32 

501 to 1000 
50 

1001 and above 
80 

Strength Test

IS – 1003 

[Part – I] 

From each lot 5% of the factory 

made shutter shall be 
Manufacture tested for strength 

tests. 

 
 

Slamming 

Impact 
Indentation 

Shock 
Resistance 

Edge Loading


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 493 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

11. 
Ply Wood 

[IS–303] 

Moisture 

Content 

IS – 1734 – 
1983 [Part – 

I] 

Six test pieces cut from each of 
the boards selected as per table 

– I shall be subjected to tests. 

C 
240.00 

Sampling 
shall be as 

per IS – 
7835 Table 

– 2 

12. 

Veneered 

Wood 
Particle 

Board 
[Medium 

Density] 

IS – 
3097 

Density 

IS – 635 

[Part – I] 

Three test specimen from each 

sample [Size 150mm x 75mm] 
A 
60.00 

Sampling 

shall be 
done as 
per IS – 

3487 
Clause 2 

with 
moisture 

meter. 

Moisture 

Content 

IS – 2360 

[Part – 3] 

Three test specimen from each 

sample [Size 150mm x 75mm] 

A & 

B 
60.00 

Water 
Absorption 

IS – 2360 

[Part – 16] 

Three test specimen from each 
sample [Size 300mm x 300mm] 
A 
60.00 

Swelling Due 

To Surface 
Absorption 

IS – 2360 

[Part – 17] 

Three test specimen from each 
sample [Size 125mm x 100mm] 
A 
60.00 

Swelling In 

Water 

IS – 2360 

[Part – 17] 

Three test specimen from each 
sample [Size 200mm x 100mm] 
A 
60.00 

Modules Of 

Rupture 

IS – 2360 

[Part – IV] 

Three test specimens as per 

IS – 2380– 1977 

B 
90.00 

Screw 
Withdrawal 

Strength 

IS – 2360 

[Part – IV] 

Three test specimens 

as per IS – 2385 

C 
120.00 

13 

PCC Hollow 

Blocks for 

Walling 

Compressiv

e Strength 

IS – 2156 
[Appendix “B”] 
8 Blocks out of 14 
A 
60.00 
Sample: 14 
blocks from 
consignment 

of every 
5000 blocks 

or part 
thereof. 

Water 
Absorption 

IS – 2156 
[Appendix “E”] 
3 Blocks out of 14 
B 
120.0

0 

Density 
IS – 2156 
[Appendix “A”] 
3 Blocks out of 14 
B 
90.00 

PCC Solid 

Block for 

Walling 

Comprehen

sive 
Strength 

IS – 2185 
12 Blocks out of 18 
A 
60.00 

Sample: 18 
blocks from 
consignment 

of every 
1000 blocks 

or part 
thereof. 

These blocks 

to be 
checked for 

dimension 

Water 
Absorption 
IS – 2185 
3 Blocks out of 18 
B 
120.0

0 

Density 
IS – 2185 
3 Blocks out of 18 
B 
120.0

0 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 494 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

and weight 

14 

Ceramic 

Tiles / 
Glazed Tiles 

Water 
Absorption 

Test 

– 
6 Tiles out of 18 
B 
180.0

0 

Samples: 18 

tiles from 
each source 

of supply 
selected at 

random 

15 

Burnt Clay 

Roofing 
Tiles [Hand 

Made]  

As per IS – 
2690 Part – 

II Length 
150 to 250 
mm, width 
100 to 200 

mm and 
thickness 35 

to 50 mm 

Water 
Absorption 

 

IS – 3495 

[Part – II] 

6 Tiles out of 12 

B 
216.0

0 

Sample: 12 

tiles from 
each source 

of supply 
selected at 

random. 
Compressiv

e Strength 

IS – 3495 

[Part – I] 

A 
180.0

0 

16 

Mangalore 

Pattern 
roofing tiles 

Water 
Absorption 

 

IS – 654 

Appendix “A”  

6 Tiles out of 32 

B 
180.0

0 

Sample: 
32tiles from 

each 
consignment 

of 3000 tils 

or part 
thereof. 
These tiles 

shall be 
checked for 

dimensions 
and weight. 

Breaking 

Load 

IS – 654 

Appendix “C”  

B 
120.0

0 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(T Venkata Ratnam) 
Signature of contractor 
 
 
 
 
 
AAD (Contracts)               
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for Accepting Officer  


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 495 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
42. 
DIFFERENT STAGES OF YARDSTICK FOR GUIDANCE: 

Stage 
Description Of Works To Be Covered 

I 

Earth Work & Excavation In Foundations Including Rfr, Removal Of Surplus Soil, Pcc [1:4:8] 
Under Foundation, Att Works, Rcc In Plinth Beams Including Reinforcement, Form Work, Rcc 
Columns Upto Ffl, Reinforcement Upto Ffl [For Cols] And Earth Filling Under Floors Etc All Upto 
FFL [Except Sub Base & Flooring] 
 

II 
Rcc Works As In Columns, Including Formwork, Reinforcement Upto Slab/Tie Beam Level  

III 
Brick Masonry Work Including Half Brick Walls, Pcc Cills Etc. 

IV 

Rcc M40 For Lintels, Chajjas, Drops, Fins, Facias, Gutter Walls, Including Reinforcement Form 
Work Etc. 
 

V 
Rcc M40 For Rcc Beams, Slabs Including Reinforcement Formwork Etc. 

VI 

All Joinery Works Like Wooden Door / Window / Ventilators Chowkats, Panelled Door Shutters, 
Window / Ventilators Shutters Including Hardware Items And Steel Rolling Shutters, Ms Grills, 
Glazing,  
 

VII 
Internal Plastering. 

VIII 
External Plastering. 

IX 
Water Proofing Treatment To Chajja, Roof Slab Including All Layer Over Rcc Roof Slab 

X 
Sub Base, PCC Flooring & Other Type Flooring, Including Skirting, Dado, Separately]. 

XI 
Plumbing/Sanitary Fittings, PVC Soil/Rainwater/Waste Pipes, Bends Etc. Pvc Water Tank 

XII 

Internal Surface Finishes / White Wash In Walls, Ceiling, OBD To Walls, Synthetic Enamel Paint 
On Wooden And Steel Surface Etc. 
 

XII 
Cement Based Paint. 

XIV 

Misc. Items/Special Items Like False Ceiling, Hard Core For Plinth Protection And PCC [1:3:6] 
For Plinth Protection And Other Items Not Covered Above. 
 

XV 
Site Clearance. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 496 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Annexure – "A" 

CEMENT SUPPLY & ACCEPTANCE REGISTER 

1. 
C. A. No. & Name of Work  
 
 
 
 
:  

2. 
Control No. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
:  

3. 
Name of Manufacturer/Brand Name/Grade of Cement 
 
:  

[A]  
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
 
: 

[B]  
Brand     
 
 
 
 
 
: 

[C]  
Grade    
 
 
 
 
 
: 

4. 
Quantity of cement & Lot No. / Week No. [In Bags] 
 
:   

[a] 
Quantity 
 
 
 
 
 
: 

[b] 
Lot No./Week No. 
 
 
 
 
: 

5. 
Manufacturer’s test certificates No. 
 
 
 
:  

6. 
Random test Details :    

[a]  
Physical test report from________ vide their letter No. 
:  

[b]  
Chemical test report form_______ vide their letter No. 
:  

7. 
Details of Physical & Chemical properties  
 
 
:   
Refer  Annexure "B" 

Annexure – "B" 

 

 

 

Physical Requirements  

[As per IS – 4031] 

Chemical Requirements  

[As per IS – 4032] 

[Sq.m/Gram] 
Soundness by Le 

Chatlier Expansion [%] 

Soundness by Auto 

Clave Expansion 

Initial setting time 

[Minutes] 

Final setting time 

[Minutes] 

Compressive 

Strength  

 

Temp  during testing 0C 

Standard Consistency 

[%] 

Lime saturation Factor 

[Ratio] 

Alumina Ion Ratio  

[Ratio] 

Insoluble Residue [%] 

Sulphuric Anhydride [%] 

Loss on ignition [%] 

Alkalis [%] 

Chlorides [%] 

Magnesium [%] 

03 Days 

[Mpa] 

07 Days 

[Mpa] 

28 Days 

[Mpa] 

As per 

Relevant 

IS 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

As per 

manufacturer’

s test 

certificate 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 497 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

As per 

random 

test 

certificate 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Remarks with signature  
 
 
: 

Junior Engineer [Civil]  
 
 
: 

Engineer – in – Charge  
 
 
: 

Contractor 
 
 
 
 
: 

Accepted/Rejected 
 
 
 
: 
 
  

Garrison Engineer 
 
 
 
: 

 

Remarks of BOO / Inspecting Officer / CE Zone :  

Annexure – "C" 

IN/OUT CEMENT REGISTER 

 

Ser No 

Date 

Cement IN 
Cement OUT 

Quantity Balance  

[in bags] 

Signature 

Remarks 

Quantity  

[in bags] 

Control No 

Quantity  

[in bags] 

Reasons* 

Age of  

Cement 

Contractor 

AGE / GE 

[a] 
[b] 
[c] 
[d] 
[e] 
[f] 
[g] 
[h] 
[j] 
[k] 
[l] 

 

* 
Note:  The following reasons may be mentioned for taking out cement from store: 

 

For testing purpose 
 
 
:  

For use in work  
 
 
:  

Rejected cement taken out of site 
: 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 498 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Annexure – "D" 

STEEL SUPPLY / ACCEPTANCE FORM 

 
 

Contract No. 
 
 
 
 
: 

Name of Work  
 
 
 
: 

Control No. 
 
 
 
 
: 
 
 
 
 
 

Details of Purchase 
 
 
 
: 

[i] 
Particulars of Manufacturers 
: 

[ii]  
Details of Suppliers, if any 
: 

Details of Test Certificate 
 
 
: 

[i] 
No. and Date 
 
 
: 

[ii] 
Particulars of Issuing Authority : 

Serial No. 

Nomenclature and 

size of steel 

IS Reference 

Quantity [Tons] 
Physical properties 

Remarks 

Actual 

Conversion 

UTS [N/Sq.mm] 
Elongation [%] 

Bend 

Test 
IS Test 

Sheet 

Random 

Test* 

IS Test 

Sheet 

Random 

Test* 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 

* 
As per frequency of testing given vide clause 10.3.6 above 

Remarks with signature  
 
 
: 

Junior Engineer [Civil]  
 
 
: 

Engineer – in – Charge  
 
 
: 

Contractor 
 
 
 
 
: 

Accepted/Rejected 
 
 
 
: 
 
  

Garrison Engineer 
 
 
 
: 

 
 

Remarks of BOO / Inspecting Officer / CE Zone :  

 
 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 499 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Annexure – "E" 

TEST CERTIFICATE 

 

No. of Test 
 
 
 
:  

Name of Articles[s] 
 
 
:  

Samples submitted by  
 
:  

Reference to the letter No / Date 
:  

Test No. 

Serial No 

Sample [s] 

Carbon [C%] 

Sulphur [S%] 

Phosphores [P%] 

Manganèse [Mn%] 

Silicon [Si%] 

Chromium [Cr%] 

Nickel  [Ni%] 

Copper [Cu%] 

Tin [Sn%] 

Lead [Pb%] 

Ferrous [Fe%] 

Zinc [Za%] 

Aluminium [Al%] 

Impurities % 

Wt of Za 

UTS 

% Elongation 

Proof  Stress MPa 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

Remarks with signature  
 
 
: 

Junior Engineer [Civil]  
 
 
: 

Engineer – in – Charge  
 
 
: 

Contractor 
 
 
 
 
: 

Accepted/Rejected 
 
 
 
: 
 
  

Garrison Engineer 
 
 
 
: 

Remarks of BOO / Inspecting Officer / CE Zone :  

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 500 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Annexure – "F" 

 

TEST REPORT 

 
Name of Article material  
:   

Particulars Identification Mark 
 
: 

Name of the firm manufacturer  
: 

This is to certify that the article, the particulars of which are given has been tested in this centre another test 
results are as follows: 

Chemical tests on metal [Percentage by Weight] 

Ferrous 

C 
S 
P 
Mn 
Si 
Ni 
Cu 
Mo 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Non Ferrous 

Sn 
Pb 
Cu 
Fe 
Zn 
Others 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Serial No. 

Weight / Metre 

Weight / Metric 

Mechanical / Physical Tests 

Elongation 

Bend Test 

Re-Bend Test 

Miscellaneous 

Remarks 

Yield / Proof Stress 

[N/Sq.mm] 

Tensile Strength 

[N/Sq.mm] 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Remarks with signature  
 
 
: 

Junior Engineer [Civil]  
 
 
: 

Engineer – in – Charge  
 
 
: 

Contractor 
 
 
 
 
: 

Accepted/Rejected 
 
 
 
: 
 
  

Garrison Engineer 
 
 
 
: 

Remarks of BOO / Inspecting Officer / CE Zone :  

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 501 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Annexure – "G" 

IN / OUT STEEL REGISTER 

Ser. 

No. 
Date 

Steel  IN 
Steel OUT 

Quantity 

Balance 
Quantity 

[Tons] 

Section 
Control No.
Quantity 

[Tons] 
Section 
Reasons* 

 

*Note:  The following reasons may be mentioned for taking out Steel from storage: 

[a] 
For testing purpose 

[b] 
For use in work 

[c] 
Rejected Steel taken out of site 

 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 502 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 

Annexure – "H" 

FORMAT FOR QUALITY CONTROL PLAN 
This format shall form part of Contract Agreement 
[To be submitted by Contractor within 30 days of commencement of contract] 

PART – I 
 
1. 
Contract Agreement reference No  
:  
 
2. 
CPM Network prepared and approved by GE 
:   
 
3. 
Resource scheduling done based on CPM  
:  
 
4. 
Site Laboratory [with equipments] set up as per Contract Agreement 
:     Not Applicable 
 
 
5. 
Concrete mix design submitted and approved  
:  
 
6. 
Preliminary works completed to standard engineering practice 
:  
 
7. 
Arrangements for water made [Including testing of water] 
:  
 
8. 
Arrangements for electric supply made  
:  
 
9. 
Materials  
:  
 
 

Ser. 

No 
Item 
Source as 

per CA 

Contractor’s 

plan of 
sourcing 

Refer to  
testing clause 

Agency for 

testing 
Responsibility

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 

 

10.        List of all T & P, make and numbers that the contractor would deploy at site of work 
:  

11.        Name of person nominated by contractor exercising quality control 
 
 
:  

12.        Qualifications/Experience of person at Serial No. 11 above 
 
 
 
:  

13.        Name of supervisors with their qualifications / experience employed by contractor 
:  

14.        Confirmation that contract relating to relating to quality of all materials   

and standards of workmanship and finishes  and  
 
 
 
 
: 

15.         Confirmation that requirement of tests to be conducted on materials before approval 

of sample   and during execution, tests on workmanship, tests 
 
 
 
: 

16.  
Method to be adopted for maintaining records of tests result 
 
 
 
:    
 
 

 
 


 
 
 
CA No. DDG & CE (V)/TOKEN/03 OF 2022-2023                                     SERIAL PAGE NO. 503 
 

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATIONS [Contd…] 
 
17. 
Certificate that contractor shall maintain a log of all materials received at site as per the following format: 

Ser 
No. 
Date 
Materials 
Quantity 
Received 
Source 

Whether as per 

approved  
sample or not 

Tests carried out 

by supplier 

Tests to be 

carried out 

before  
incorporation 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 

 

18. 
General remarks by contractor of his plan of action to ensure that quality. 

Date: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Signature of Contractor]  

PART – II  

[To be completed by GE before forwarding for approval by CWE] 

1 
Verification of Serial No. 2 to 8 of Part – I 
: 
 

2 
Verification of Serial No. 9 to 18 of Part – I       
: 
 

3 

Confirmation that stage Passing Register laying down the stages and authority 
responsible for approving the same has been prepared, shown to contractor and 
kept at site.  

: 
 

4 
Confirmation that all sites as require by contract has been handed over to 
contractor on the date fixed in Work Order No 1   
: 
 

5 
Confirmation that arrangements for Government liability in supply of water and 
electricity have been made and no hold up on this account is expected.    
: 
 

 
 
 
Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature of GE  
 
 
Approved by CWE 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
PLS-CPM-TEM-008-6  

 
Purchaser: 
Pilgangoora Operations Pty Ltd 

Supplier:  
[Insert supplier entity] 

Supply Contract - 
No  Ins tallation 

Contract No.: [ insert ] 

 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page i 

Contents 

1  
Definitions 
1  

2  
Performance 
10  

2.1  
Supplier obligations 
10  
2.2  
Payment 
10  
2.3  
Performance Criteria 
10  

3  
The Contract 
10  

3.1  
Entire understanding 
10  
3.2  
Mutually explanatory 
10  
3.3  
Discrepancies, errors and ambiguities 
10  
3.4  
Excluded terms 
10  
3.5  
Application of Contract 
10  

4  
Authority, laws, safety and environment 
10  

4.1  
Comply with laws 
10  
4.2  
Anti-corruption 
11  
4.3  
Policies 
11  

5  
Security 
11  

5.1  
Provision of security 
11  
5.2  
Replacement 
12  
5.3  
Reduction of security 
12  
5.4  
Return of unconditional financial undertaking and retention monies 
12  
5.5  
Recourse 
12  
5.6  
Outstanding claims 
13  
5.7  
Holding of and interest on security 
13  

6  
Administration 
13  

6.1  
Agent 
13  
6.2  
Directions of Purchaser’s Representative 
13  
6.3  
Informed of progress 
13  
6.4  
No agency 
14  
6.5  
Purchaser may perform Supplier’s obligations 
14  

7  
Information Documents 
14  

7.1  
Information documents not warranted 
14  
7.2  
Supplier has informed itself 
14  

8  
Subcontracting 
14  

8.1  
Approval and liability 
14  

9  
The Site 
15  

9.1  
Access to Site 
15  
9.2  
Site forms part of Existing Operation 
15  

10  
Warranties and Intellectual Property 
16  

10.1   Supplier warranties 
16  
10.2   Warranties additional 
16  
10.3   Subcontractor and supplier warranties 
16  
10.4   Intellectual Property Rights 
16  

11  
Variations 
17  

11.1   Right to direct Variations 
17  


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page ii 

11.2   Notification 
17  
11.3   Supplier to submit its final cost 
17  
11.4   Cost of Variations 
17  
11.5   Bar on claims 
17  
11.6   Direction to perform Work under the Contract 
18  

12  
Supplier’s personnel and subcontractors 
18  

12.1   Supplier’s Representative 
18  
12.2   Employees and subcontractors 
18  
12.3   Removal 
19  
12.4   Occupational Health and Safety 
19  

13  
Inspection and rejection 
20  

13.1   Hold Points 
20  
13.2   Entry for inspection 
20  
13.3   Quality assurance 
20  
13.4   Supplier’s obligations remain 
21  
13.5   Notice to remedy 
21  
13.6   Failure to remedy in time 
21  

14  
Testing and training 
21  

14.1   Meaning of test 
21  
14.2   Direction to test 
21  
14.3   Notice of testing 
21  
14.4   Costs where Work under the Contract does not comply 
22  
14.5   Training 
22  

15  
Price and payment 
22  

15.1   Obligation to pay 
22  
15.2   Sufficiency of Contract Price 
22  
15.3   Security and Insurance 
22  
15.4   Payment claims 
22  
15.5   Payments 
23  
15.6   Payment schedule 
23  
15.7   Timing of payment 
24  
15.8   Interest on payments 
24  
15.9   Payment for Equipment not Delivered 
24  
15.10   Payment on account only 
24  
15.11   Right to set off 
24  

16  
Valuing Variations and adjustment to the Contract Price 
25  

17  
Time and Delivery 
25  

17.1   No delay 
25  
17.2   Time and place for Delivery 
25  
17.3   Suspension 
25  
17.4   No obligation to accept 
26  
17.5   Power to grant extensions 
26  
17.6   Supplier’s entitlement 
26  
17.7   Multiple causes 
26  
17.8   Notification 
26  
17.9   Period of extension 
26  
17.10   No prejudice 
27  
17.11   Delay costs 
27  
17.12   No entitlement 
27  


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page iii 

18  
Delay liquidated damages 
27  

18.1   Liability for delay liquidated damages 
27  
18.2   If amount nil 
27  

19  
Risk and title 
28  

19.1   Supplier’s warranties 
28  
19.2   Passing of title 
28  
19.3   Risk 
28  

20  
Transport of Equipment 
28  

20.1   Cost of carriage 
28  
20.2   Consolidation of deliveries 
28  
20.3   Requirements of Program 
28  
20.4   Protection of Equipment 
28  
20.5   Progressive Delivery 
29  

21  
Acceptance or rejection of Equipment 
29  

21.1   Certificate of Acceptance or Notice of Non-Acceptance 
29  
21.2   Rectification of minor omissions 
30  
21.3   Rectification or replacement 
30  
21.4   Acceptance or rejection of proposal 
30  
21.5   Replacement of Equipment 
30  
21.6   Rectification of Equipment 
31  
21.7   Rejection where no rectification or replacement 
31  
21.8   Consequences of notice of rejection 
31  
21.9   No impact on rights 
31  

22  
Warranty period 
31  

22.1   Duration of Warranty Period 
31  
22.2   Direction to rectify 
31  
22.3   Failure to carry out rectification 
32  

23  
Final payment schedule 
32  

23.1   Final payment claim 
32  
23.2   Issue of Final Payment Schedule 
32  
23.3   Payment of sum certified 
32  
23.4   Bar on claims 
33  
23.5   No approval 
33  

24  
Liability 
33  

24.1   Indemnity 
33  
24.2   Exclusion of Consequential Loss 
33  

25  
Insurance 
34  

25.1   Obligation to maintain insurance 
34  
25.2   Certificates of currency 
35  
25.3   Terms of insurance 
35  

26  
Confidentiality and media releases 
36  

26.1   No disclosure 
36  
26.2   Exclusions 
36  
26.3   No press release 
36  
26.4   Referral of media enquiries 
36  
26.5   Return of documents 
36  

27  
Default and insolvency 
37  


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page iv 

27.1   Termination for default by the Supplier 
37  
27.2   Rights of the Purchaser 
37  
27.3   Supplier’s right to terminate 
37  

28  
Termination for convenience 
37  

28.1   Termination for convenience 
37  

29  
Obligations on and consequences of termination 
37  

29.1   Supplier’s obligations 
37  
29.2   Payment upon termination for convenience or termination by Supplier 
38  
29.3   Consequences of termination 
38  

30  
Claims 
39  

31  
Disputes 
40  

31.1   Notice of Dispute 
40  
31.2   Conference 
40  
31.3   Arbitration 
40  
31.4   Litigation 
40  

32  
Notices 
40  

32.1   General 
40  
32.2   Email Notices 
41  

33  
Taxes and customs duty 
42  

33.1   Taxes 
42  
33.2   Customs clearance and Australian customs duty 
42  

34  
GST 
43  

34.1   Construction 
43  
34.2   Consideration GST exclusive 
43  
34.3   Payment of GST 
43  
34.4   Timing of GST payment 
43  
34.5   Tax invoice 
43  
34.6   Adjustment event 
44  
34.7   Reimbursements 
44  
34.8   Calculations based on other amounts 
44  
34.9   No merger 
44  

35  
Personal Property Securities Act 
44  

36  
Building and Construction Industry (Security of Payment) Act 2021 WA 
45  

37  
Financing Assistance 
46  

37.1   Financing Assistance 
46  
37.2   Lenders Direct Deed 
46  
37.3   Interface with the Lenders 
46  
37.4   Enforcement of Security Interests 
46  

38  
General 
46  

38.1   Novation 
46  
38.2   Duty 
47  
38.3   Legal Costs 
47  
38.4   Assignment 
47  
38.5   Amendment 
47  
38.6   Waiver and exercise of rights 
47  


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page v 

38.7   Rights cumulative 
48  
38.8   Consents 
48  
38.9   Further steps 
48  
38.10   Governing law and jurisdiction 
48  
38.11   Liability 
48  
38.12   Counterparts 
48  
38.13   Relationship of parties 
48  
38.14   Currency 
48  
38.15   Construction 
48  
38.16   Deed 
49  

Schedule 1 – Contract Details 
50  

Schedule 2 – Performance Criteria 
54  

Schedule 3 – Drawings 
57  

Schedule 4 – Specification 
58  

Schedule 5 – Approved subcontractors 
59  

Schedule 6 – Rates for Calculation of Contract Price 
60  

Schedule 7 – Approved Form of Financial Undertaking 
61  

Schedule 8 – Deed of Guarantee and Indemnity 
63  

Schedule 9 – Hold Points 
71  

Schedule 10 – Policies 
72  

Schedule 11 – Form of Novation Deed 
73  

Schedule 12 – Scope of Services 
80  

Execution 
81  

 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 1 

Date 

Parties 

Purchaser 
Pilgangoora Operations Pty Ltd ABN 75 616 560 395 of  

Level 2, 146 Colin Street, West Perth, WA, 6005 

( Purchaser ) 

Supplier 
[insert supplier entity name] ACN/ABN [insert] of  

[insert address] 

( Supplier ) 

 

 

Background 

A 
The Supplier   has represented to the Purchaser that it has the skill, personnel, material 
and equipment to perform the Work under the Contract in accordance with this 
Contract. 

B 
In reliance on the Supplier’s representations, the Purchaser has agreed to appoint the 
Supplier to perform the Work under the Contract on the terms set out in this Contract. 

 

 

General Conditions 

1 
Definitions 

In this Contract these terms have the following meanings: 

Acceptable 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

When: 

(a) 
all of the Equipment has been Delivered to the Point of 
Delivery; 

(b) 
all of the Equipment substantially complies with the 
Contract except for minor Defects which do not prevent 
the Equipment from being reasonably capable of being 
used for the purposes for which it is intended; 

(c) 
all tests: 

(i) 
required under this Contract to be undertaken prior 
to or as part of Acceptance, or otherwise required 
so that the Equipment is ready for use, and safe 
operation for the purpose for which it is intended; or 

(ii) 
where no such tests are specified, tests which a 
competent supplier experienced in supply of 
equipment similar to the Equipment would have 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 2 

performed, 

have been carried out and passed and the Supplier has 
provided evidence, to the reasonable satisfaction of the 
Purchaser, that those tests have been carried out and 
passed;  

(d) 
all manuals, documents, training and other information 
required to be provided by the Supplier under the Contract 
or at law or which are required for the operation and 
maintenance of the Equipment, have been supplied to the 
Purchaser; and 

(e) 
all conditions set out in  clause 21  have been satisfied. 

Acceptance 
That stage in the carrying out and completion of the Work under 
the Contract when the Equipment is Acceptable, as evidenced 
by a Certificate of Acceptance issued by the Purchaser’s 
Representative under  clause 21 . 

Acceptance 
Period 

The period which expires 20 Business Days after the last to 
occur of: 

(a) 
Delivery of all of the Equipment to the Point of Delivery or 
where the Point of Delivery is not the Site, the Equipment 
having been received at Site; 

(b) 
the completion of any tests including performance tests 
which are required by the Contract or by the Purchaser’s 
Representative to be carried out prior to Acceptance 
(whether by the Purchaser, or by or under the supervision 
of the Supplier); or 

(c) 
if, in the opinion of the Purchaser’s Representative, it is 
not possible to determine whether the Equipment is or is 
not Acceptable, the date that the Purchaser’s 
Representative is of the opinion it becomes possible to 
make the determination (which the Supplier acknowledges 
may be after the Equipment has been Installed and 
Commissioned). 

Authority 
A governmental, semi-governmental, local or other authority that 
exercises jurisdiction over the Work under the Contract or the 
Site. 

Business Day 
A day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or bank or public holiday 
in Perth, Western Australia. 

Certificate of 
Acceptance 

A certificate issued by the Purchaser’s Representative under 
clause 21.1(a) . 

Commencement 
Date 

The date specified in  Item 1   schedule 1 .  

Compensable 
Cause 

Means any breach of the Contract by the Purchaser, its 
consultants, agents or other contractors (not being the Supplier 
or any person engaged or employed by the Supplier). 

Confidential 
Information 

Means any ideas, concepts, drawings, specifications, data or 
information which: 

(a) 
relates to the operation or business of the Purchaser; and 

(b) 
have been produced by the Purchaser, the Supplier, any 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 3 

subcontractor or any third party; and 

(c) 
have only been obtained or produced by the Supplier as 
an incident to the performance of the Work under the 
Contract. 

Consequential 
Loss 

Any: 

(a) 
loss of profit; 

(b) 
loss of revenue; 

(c) 
loss of use; 

(d) 
loss of production; or 

(e) 
loss of opportunity. 

Contract 
This document, including the “General Conditions” and all 
Schedules, together with the documents listed in  Item 2  of 
schedule 1  which, in the event of any inconsistencies, must be 
construed in the order of priority specified in  Item 2  of 
schedule 1 .  

Contract Price 
(a) 
Where there is a lump sum in  Item 3  of  schedule 1 , that 
lump sum; or 

(b) 
where there are rates in  schedule 6 , the sum ascertained 
by multiplying those rates by the quantities properly 
supplied in accordance with this Contract; or 

(c) 
where there are both rates in  schedule 6  and lump sums 
in  Item 3  of  schedule 1 , the aggregate of the sums 
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b), 

as adjusted under the Contract. 

Deed of 
Guarantee and 
Indemnity 

The deed in  schedule 8 . 

Defect 
Means any defect, fault or omission in the Equipment or any 
aspect which is not in accordance with this Contract. 

Deliver  
Means in respect of the Equipment that state when: 

(a) 
the Equipment has been manufactured or fabricated, 
delivered to (and where the Supplier is the party 
nominated in  schedule 1  as responsible for loading or 
unloading the Equipment, the Equipment has been loaded 
or unloaded at) the Point of Delivery; 

(b) 
all testing required in respect of the Equipment: 

(i) 
prior to or as part of Delivery under this Contract; or  

(ii) 
where no such tests are specified, tests which a 
competent supplier experienced in supply of 
equipment similar to the Equipment would have 
performed including factory acceptance tests,  

have been carried out and passed and the Supplier has 
provided evidence, to the reasonable satisfaction of the 
Purchaser, that those tests have been carried out and 
passed; 

(c) 
the Supplier has done everything which this Contract 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 4 

requires it to do as a condition precedent to Deliver the 
Equipment (including any assembly). 

Dispute 
The meaning given to it in  clause 31.1.  

Documentation 
All documentation whether in hard form, digital form or in any 
other media which the Supplier is required to produce or provide 
to the Purchaser pursuant to this Contract including plans, 
drawings, specifications, calculations, models, information, 
recommendations, reports, records and designs. 

Drawings 
The drawings set out in  schedule 3  and any further drawings 
issued by the Purchaser to the Supplier. 

Entitlement 
An entitlement of the Supplier to: 

(a) 
an extension of time; 

(b) 
a declaration to the effect that time is at large; 

(c) 
any adjustment to the Contract Price or valuation under 
clause 16 ; 

(d) 
recover any Loss of any kind arising: 

(i) 
under the Contract; or 

(ii) 
out of or in connection with the supply of the 
Equipment. 

Environmental 
Legislation 

Means all applicable environmental laws, regulations, guidelines 
and codes of practice including, without limitation, the  Mining Act 
1978  (WA),  Environmental Protection and Biodiversity 
Conservation Act 1999  (Cth),  Environmental Protection Act 1986 
(WA) and  Environmental Protection (Clearing of Native 
Vegetation) Regulations 2004  (WA). 

Equipment  
The equipment or other goods to be supplied under this 
Contract, described in  Item 4  of  schedule 1  and more 
particularly in the Drawings and Specification, including 
provision of all manuals, spare parts and operating instructions 
needed by the Purchaser for the proper use of the equipment 
and any other things which can reasonably be inferred from the 
description of the equipment in the Contract. 

Existing 
Operations 

Means all improvements on or about the Site and operations of 
the Purchaser, or any related entity of the Purchaser, carried out 
on or about the Site (whether before or after the date of the 
Contract). 

Final Payment 
Schedule 

The payment schedule issued under  clause 23.2 . 

Hold Point 
The hold points specified in  schedule 9  or elsewhere in this 
Contract. 

Information 
Documents 

(a) 
any document specification, drawing, calculation, 
information, data, report or sample (whatever its form) 
marked or described as being ‘site information’ or marked 
or described in a similar fashion and made available or 
provided to the Supplier by or on behalf of the Purchaser 
prior to the date of the Contract; 

(b) 
any document, specification, drawing, calculation, 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 5 

information, data, report or sample (whatever its form) 
made available or provided to the Supplier by or on behalf 
of the Purchaser, whether prior to or after the date of the 
Contract, regarding site conditions; and 

(c) 
any other document or information issued or made 
available: 

(i) 
on, before or after the date of submission of the 
tender; or 

(ii) 
on, before or after the date of execution of this 
Contract (other than any information, data, or 
document which the Purchaser is obliged by the 
terms of the Contract to provide to the Supplier and 
the Supplier is expressly obliged by the terms of the 
Contract to rely on), 

to the Supplier in respect of Work under the Contract 
which is marked, called, or otherwise described as, an 
“information document” or as being “for tendering 
purposes” or “for tenderers’ information only” or similar 
phrase. 

Insolvency 
Event 

Any of the following: 

(a) 
a person is or states that the person is unable to pay from 
the person’s own money all the person’s debts as and 
when they become due and payable; 

(b) 
a person is taken or must be presumed to be insolvent or 
unable to pay its debts under any applicable legislation; 

(c) 
an application or order is made for the winding up or 
dissolution, or a resolution is passed or any steps are 
taken to pass a resolution for the winding up or 
dissolution, of a corporation; 

(d) 
an administrator, provisional liquidator, liquidator or 
person having a similar or analogous function under the 
laws of Western Australia is appointed in respect of a 
corporation or any action is taken to appoint any such 
person and the action is not stayed, withdrawn or 
dismissed within 5 Business Days; 

(e) 
a receiver, or receiver and manager, is appointed in 
respect of any property of a corporation; 

(f) 
a corporation is deregistered under the  Corporations Act 
2001  (Cth) or notice of its proposed deregistration is given 
to the corporation; 

(g) 
a distress, attachment or execution is levied or becomes 
enforceable against any property of a person; 

(h) 
a person enters into or takes any action to enter into an 
arrangement (including a scheme of arrangement or deed 
of company arrangement), composition or compromise 
with, or assignment for the benefit of, all or any class of 
the person’s creditors or members or a moratorium 
involving any of them; 

(i) 
a petition for the making of a sequestration order against 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 6 

the estate of a person is presented and the petition is not 
stayed, withdrawn or dismissed within 5 Business Days or 
a person presents a petition against himself or herself; 

(j) 
a person presents a declaration of intention under 
section 54A of the  Bankruptcy Act 1966  (Cth); or 

(k) 
anything analogous to or of a similar effect to anything 
described above under the law of Western Australia 
occurs in respect of a person. 

Installed and 
Commissioned 

Means, where: 

(a) 
the purpose of the relevant Equipment is to incorporate it 
into anything such as a piece of plant, building or 
structure, the Equipment has been so incorporated and all 
pre-commissioning and commissioning tests and any trial 
operation has been carried out to ensure that the 
incorporated Equipment is ready for operation; or 

(b) 
the Equipment is not for the purpose set out in (a) above, 
the Equipment has been fully assembled and all 
commissioning and other tests have been successfully 
completed so the Equipment is ready for use by the 
Purchaser. 

Intellectual 
Property Right 

Any patent, design, trade mark or name, copyright, circuit layout 
rights or other protected right. 

Legal Opinion 
A legal opinion: 

(a) 
from legal advisers to the person named in  Item 5  of 
schedule 1  authorised to practice in the place of 
incorporation of that person, stating that the Deed of 
Guarantee and Indemnity is binding and enforceable 
against that person; 

(b) 
in favour of the Purchaser; and 

which is in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Purchaser. 

Lenders 

 

 

means collectively, all of the entities (if any), including 
multilaterals and export credit agencies if applicable, providing 
financing under financing agreements or otherwise and any 
trustee or agent on those entities’ behalf. 

Lenders’ 
Representative 

means an engineering firm or independent technical person of 
recognised expertise appointed by the Lenders. 

Longstop Date 
The longstop date set out in  Item 6  of  schedule 1 .   

Loss 
Any loss (including Consequential Loss), demand, claim, action, 
liability, damage, cost, charge, expense, outgoing, payment, 
diminution in value or deficiency of any kind or character. 

Minimum 
Performance 
Criteria 

The minimum performance criteria (if any) set out in the 
Performance Criteria. 

Performance 
Criteria 

The performance criteria for the Equipment which are set out in 
schedule 2 . 

Performance 
Liquidated 

The liquidated damages in the amounts specified in  Item 7  of 
schedule 1  for a failure to achieve the Performance Criteria 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 7 

Damages 
payable by the Supplier pursuant to  schedule 2 . 

Point of Delivery 
The point of delivery set out in  Item 8  of  schedule 1 . 

Policies 
Any policies or procedures of the Purchaser:  

(a) 
available on the Purchaser’s website; 

(b) 
listed or set out in  schedule 10 ; or  

(c) 
as notified by the Purchaser to the Supplier from time to 
time,  

as updated from time to time. 

PPS Act 
The  Personal Property Securities Act 2009  (Cth). 

Program 
The program approved by the Purchaser’s Representative from 
time to time   and includes all approved versions. 

Project 
means the Purchaser’s Pilgangoora Lithium-Tantalum Project, 
120km south of Port Hedland in the Pilbara Region of Western 
Australia. 

Purchaser’s 
Representative 

The person identified in  Item 9  of  schedule 1  or a replacement 
notified in writing by the Purchaser to the Supplier. 

Qualifying Cause 
of Delay 

Means: 

(a) 
any of the following causes whether happening before, on 
or after the Time for Delivery: 

(i) 
a Compensable Cause; 

(ii) 
a direction for a Variation under  clause 11.1 ; or 

(iii) 
a direction to suspend under  clause 17.3 , provided 
that the suspension was not necessary because of 
an act, default or omission of the Supplier; 

(b) 
any of the following causes that happen on or before the 
Time for Delivery (as applicable): 

(i) 
a cyclone at the Point of Delivery that has been 
named by the Bureau of Meteorology and for which 
the Bureau of Meteorology has issued a “cyclone 
warning” applicable to the Point of Delivery; 

(ii) 
a catastrophic natural event at the Point of Delivery 
consisting of an earthquake, flood (other than as a 
consequence of a cyclone) or a fire; or 

(iii) 
pressure waves caused by aircraft or other aerial 
devices travelling at sonic or supersonic speeds, 

but in each case, only to the extent that the cause or delay: 

(c) 
is not due to an act, default or omission of the Supplier, its 
subcontractors, employees or agents or any employee or 
agent of any of them; 

(d) 
is beyond the reasonable control of the Supplier, its 
subcontractors, employees or agents; and 

(e) 
could not have been prevented by the Supplier, its 
subcontractors, employees or agents exercising 
reasonable diligence. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 8 

Safety 
Legislation 

The  Work Health and Safety Act 2020  (WA)  and regulations 
made thereunder applicable to mining operations, such as the 
Work Health and Safety (Mines) Regulations 2022  (WA) 
(collectively ‘mine safety legislation’), to the extent the mine 
safety legislation applies to the Site or the Work under the 
Contract and, to the extent the mine safety legislation does not 
apply to the Site or the Work under the Contract, the  Work 
Health and Safety Act 2020  (WA)  and any regulations made 
thereunder, such as the  Work Health and Safety (General) 
Regulations 2022  (WA). 

Security Interest 
A mortgage, caveat, charge, lien, pledge, security, interest, title 
retention arrangement, preferential right, trust arrangement, 
encumbrance, contractual right of set off, any security 
arrangement in favour of any person or any security 
arrangement which is deemed to be a security interest for the 
purposes of the PPS Act. 

Separate 
Contractors 

Contractors or consultants, other than the Supplier, engaged by 
the Purchaser to perform any work or services at, or in the 
vicinity of, the Site. 

Serious Breach 
Serious breach includes: 

(a) 
an Insolvency Event occurring in relation to the Supplier; 

(b) 
the Supplier ceasing or threatening to cease to carry on its 
business or a substantial part of its business; 

(c) 
if the Supplier is a natural person, he or she dies;  

(d) 
if the Supplier breaches a material obligation under this 
Contract, which is not capable of remedy; 

(e) 
if the Supplier breaches  clause 38.4;  

(f) 
if the Supplier is liable to the Purchaser for delay 
liquidated damages up to the limit of liability for delay 
liquidated damages (if any);   

(g) 
if the Supplier is liable to the Purchaser for Performance 
Liquidated Damages up to the limit of liability for 
Performance Liquidated Damages (if any);   

(h) 
if the Supplier fails to obtain or maintain any licenses or 
registrations necessary to perform the Work under the 
Contract; or  

(i) 
if the Supplier abandons the whole or a substantial part of 
the Work under the Contract. 

Services 

 

means the services set out in  Schedule 12  of the Contract and 
any other ancillary services ordinarily provided by a supplier in 
the supply of equipment similar to the Equipment. 

Site 
The place set out in  Item 10  of  schedule 1  and any other lands 
and other places to be made available to the Supplier by the 
Purchaser for the purposes of this Contract. 

Specification 
The documents set out in  schedule 4  and all further 
specifications issued by the Purchaser to the Supplier. 

Statutory 
The person appointed by the Purchaser as a site senior 
executive or exploration manager under the  Work Health and 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 9 

Position 
Safety (Mines) Regulations 2022  (WA) for the Site. 

Supplier’s 
Representative 

The person identified in  Item 11  of  schedule 1  or a replacement 
approved by the Purchaser. 

Time for Delivery 
The time for Delivery of the Equipment in  Item 12  of  schedule 1 
as it may be extended under  clause 17 . 

Time of 
Acceptance 

The date that the Equipment is Acceptable, as evidence in a 
Certificate of Acceptance issued by the Purchaser’s 
Representative under  clause 21 . 

Time of Delivery 
Subject to  clause   21.1 , the date that Delivery of the Equipment 
is effected by the Supplier at the Point of Delivery. 

Variation 
Means: 

(a) 
additional work; 

(b) 
a change in the character or quality of the Work under the 
Contract; 

(c) 
an increase or decrease in the scope of the Work under 
the Contract; 

(d) 
a change to the levels, lines, positions or dimensions of 
any part of the Work under the Contract; or 

(e) 
an omission from the scope of the Work under the 
Contract, including for the purpose of retaining a third 
party to perform the part of the Work under the Contract 
omitted (in which case there will be no liability to the 
Supplier for loss of profit), 

but does not include any work to overcome a breach, to remedy 
a Defect, or to overcome an act or omission of the Supplier. 

Warranty Period 
(a) 
The period, which: 

(i) 
commences on the Time of Acceptance of all of the 
Equipment; and 

(ii) 
ends at the expiry of the timeframe stated in 
schedule 1 ; and 

(b) 
any further Warranty Period created under  clause 22.1(b) . 

Work under the 
Contract 

All of the activities and the work to be performed by the Supplier 
under the Contract, including:  

(a) 
the supply and Delivery of the Equipment;  

(b) 
Variations and remedial work;  

(c) 
provision of the warranties required by the Contract;  

(d) 
performance of the Services; and  

(e) 
all things incidental to the satisfactory performance and 
completion of the things listed in paragraphs (a) to (d) 
above. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 10 

2 
Performance 

2.1 
Supplier obligations 

The Supplier must perform the Work under the Contract in accordance with and 
subject to the Contract.  The Supplier must Deliver the Equipment to the Point of 
Delivery by the Time for Delivery and do all things under the Contract to ensure that 
when Delivered, the Equipment is Acceptable. 

2.2 
Payment 

The Purchaser agrees to pay the Supplier the Contract Price in accordance with and 
subject to the Contract. 

2.3 
Performance Criteria 

Schedule 2  applies if  Item 13  of  schedule 1  specifies it applies. 

3 
The Contract 

3.1 
Entire understanding 

The documents comprising this Contract constitute the entire agreement between the 
parties and supersede all previous oral or written communications between the parties.   

3.2 
Mutually explanatory 

The provisions in this Contract will be taken as being mutually explanatory and 
anything contained in one but not in another will be treated as if contained in all. 

3.3 
Discrepancies, errors and ambiguities 

If the Supplier finds any discrepancy, error or ambiguity in the Contract, it must inform 
the Purchaser’s Representative immediately and follow the directions of the 
Purchaser’s Representative.  The Supplier will have no Entitlement as a result of 
complying with any such direction. 

3.4 
Excluded terms 

All of the terms of the  United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International 
Sale of Goods  (adopted in Vienna, Austria on 10 April 1980) are expressly excluded 
from this Contract. 

3.5 
Application of Contract 

The Contract applies to the Work under the Contract whether commenced before, on 
or after the date of the Contract.  The Supplier agrees that any payment in connection 
with the Work under the Contract made prior to the date of the Contract is a payment 
under the Contract and any such payment will be accounted for against the payment 
due to the Supplier under the Contract. 

4 
Authority, laws, safety and environment 

4.1 
Comply with laws 

The Supplier must: 

(a) 
comply with the provisions of all acts of parliament, ordinances, regulations, by-
laws and requirements of all Authorities affecting or in any way relating to the 
Site or the Work under the Contract including the Safety Legislation and 
Environmental Legislation;   


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 11 

(b) 
obtain, maintain and comply with all permits and pay all fees required for the 
performance of the Work under the Contract;  

(c) 
at a minimum, comply with all relevant Australian Standards; and 

(d) 
keep the Purchaser indemnified against all fines, penalties, Losses or damages 
incurred by reason of a breach of  clause 4.1 . 

The Supplier will have no Entitlement as a consequence of a change in a requirement 
of any thing or body referred to in this  clause 4.1 . 

4.2 
Anti-corruption 

(a) 
The Supplier must not give or offer to give (directly or indirectly) to any person 
any bribe, gift, gratuity or other thing of value, which would or could be construed 
as a corrupt practice, as an inducement or reward: 

(i) 
for doing or forbearing to do any action in relation to the Contract; or 

(ii) 
for showing or for forbearing to show any favour or disfavour to any person 
in relation to the Contract.   

(b) 
However nothing in this  clause   4.2  is intended to limit or affect any lawful 
inducements or rewards to the Supplier’s employees, agents and subcontractors 
that could not reasonably be construed as involving corrupt practices. 

4.3 
Policies  

Without limiting any other obligations on the Supplier under this Contract, the Supplier 
must comply with the Policies.  

5 
Security 

5.1 
Provision of security 

As security for the due and proper performance of this Contract by the Supplier: 

(a) 
within 10 Business Days of the earlier of commencement of the Work under the 
Contract and the date of the Contract, the Supplier must provide the Purchaser 
with unconditional and irrevocable undertakings: 

(i) 
for the amounts in  Item 14  of  schedule 1 ; 

(ii) 
issued by:  

(A) 
a bank authorised under section 9 of the  Banking Act 1959  (Cth), 
which: 

(1) 
has its principal place of business in Australia; and 

(2) 
has a Standard & Poor’s long-term issuer credit rating of AA 
minus or better ( Required Rating ); or  

(B) 
a financial institution acceptable to the Purchaser in its absolute 
discretion; 

(iii) 
in a form approved by the Purchaser in its absolute discretion (an 
approved form is in  schedule 7 );  

and 

(b) 
if specified in  Item 16  of  schedule 1 , the Supplier must, within 10 Business 
Days after the date of the Contract, provide to the Purchaser: 

(A) 
the Deed of Guarantee and Indemnity duly executed and 
enforceable against the person named in  schedule 1 ; and 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 12 

(B) 
if the person named in  schedule 1  is incorporated outside of 
Australia, a Legal Opinion supporting, and in respect of, the relevant 
Deed of Guarantee and Indemnity. 

5.2 
Replacement 

(a) 
If at any time when security provided in accordance with  clause 5.1(a)  is 
effective: 

(i) 
the issuer of that security ceases to have the Required Rating; or  

(ii) 
the Purchaser assigns, novates or transfers this Contract and the 
Purchaser’s right or obligations under this Contract in accordance with 
clause 38.1 , 

the Supplier must within 5 Business Days of that event occurring, procure a 
replacement security in favour of the Purchaser or the relevant assignee (as 
applicable) from an issuer with the Required Rating, in a form approved by the 
Purchaser in its absolute discretion (an approved form is set out in  Schedule 7 )  
and otherwise in accordance with  clause 5.1(a)(ii)  and for the amount then 
remaining of the security it is replacing. On receipt of the replacement security 
the Purchaser must cancel and return the security which is being replaced. 

(b) 
The Supplier must, if required by the Purchaser, provide a replacement bank 
guarantee in favour of the Purchaser from an issuer with the Required Rating, in 
the form set out in  Schedule 7  and in accordance with  clause 5.1(a)  for the new 
Contract Price if the Contract Price is varied and it increases by more than (five 
percent) 5%. On receipt of the replacement security the Purchaser must cancel 
and return the security being replaced.  

5.3 
Reduction of security 

Subject to  clause 5.6  and  clause 21.1 , within 20 Business Days after the date a 
Certificate of Acceptance for all of the Equipment is issued by the Purchaser’s 
Representative under  clause 21 , security must be reduced as follows: 

(a) 
in relation to security provided under  clause 5.1(a)  or  clause 5.2 , security must 
be reduced to the amount stated in  Item 1514  of  schedule 1 ; and 

(b) 
in relation to security provided under  clause 5.1(a) , security must be reduced to 
the amount stated in  Item 15 of schedule 1 . 

5.4 
Return of unconditional financial undertaking and retention monies 

Subject to  clause 5.6 , the Purchaser must return any remaining security held by it to 
the Supplier within 10 Business Days of the Purchaser making final payment in 
accordance with  clause 23 . 

5.5 
Recourse 

(a) 
The Purchaser may convert all or part of the security provided by the Supplier 
under this  clause 5  at any time and without notice.  

(b) 
The Purchaser may use the proceeds of the security in relation to any Loss 
which the Purchaser has incurred or claims that it has incurred or might in the 
future incur in connection with any actual or alleged act, default or omission of 
the Supplier. 

(c) 
The Supplier must not take any steps to injunct or otherwise restrain:  

(i) 
any issuer of any security provided under the Contract from paying the 
Purchaser pursuant to the security; 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 13 

(ii) 
the Purchaser from taking any steps for the purposes of making a demand 
under any security provided under the Contract or receiving any payment 
under any such security; or 

(iii) 
the Purchaser using the money received under any security provided 
under the Contract. 

(d) 
The Purchaser is not liable for any Loss occasioned to the Supplier by the 
conversion of security into money or the application of that money. 

5.6 
Outstanding claims 

Notwithstanding the Purchaser is otherwise required under this Contract to release 
security, the Purchaser has a right to call upon and retain from any security, an amount 
sufficient to cover any outstanding claim alleged by the Purchaser against the Supplier 
under or in connection with the Contract (whether or not that claim has at that time 
been liquidated). 

5.7 
Holding of and interest on security  

(a) 
The Purchaser does not hold any security, or any moneys resulting from the 
conversion of the security, on trust for the Supplier and is not obliged to hold any 
moneys resulting from the conversion of the security in any particular or defined 
account. 

(b) 
Any interest earned on the proceeds of any security will be retained by the 
Purchaser. 

6 
Administration 

6.1 
Agent 

The Purchaser’s Representative is the agent of the Purchaser and the Purchaser is not 
obliged to ensure that the Purchaser’s Representative acts as an independent certifier, 
assessor, determiner or valuer.  Unless specified in this Contract, the Purchaser and 
the Purchaser’s Representative are not obliged to exercise any discretionary power or 
right in the interests of the Supplier (including to overcome a failure of the Supplier to 
comply with any provision of this Contract). 

6.2 
Directions of Purchaser’s Representative 

(a) 
The Supplier must comply with all directions given by the Purchaser’s 
Representative in accordance with this Contract.  If a direction given by the 
Purchaser’s Representative conflicts with the requirements of the Contract, the 
Supplier must inform the Purchaser’s Representative in writing, advising why the 
direction is contrary to the Contract, before complying with the direction. 

(b) 
A direction given by the Purchaser’s Representative does not relieve the 
Supplier of its obligations under this Contract. 

6.3 
Informed of progress 

(a) 
The Supplier must keep the Purchaser’s Representative regularly informed on 
the state and stages of the performance of the Work under the Contract 
including as to its obligation to Deliver the Equipment to the Point of Delivery by 
the Time for Delivery and to do all things under the Contract to ensure that when 
Delivered the Equipment is Acceptable. 

(b) 
The Purchaser may, at any time, engage consultants to review and advise the 
Purchaser in relation to the performance by the Supplier of the Work under the 
Contract.  The Supplier must co-operate with those consultants. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 14 

(c) 
If directed by the Purchaser’s Representative, the Supplier must attend any 
meetings to discuss any aspect of the Work under the Contract. 

6.4 
No agency 

The Supplier must not act as or represent that it is the agent of the Purchaser or hold 
itself out as being the agent of the Purchaser. 

6.5 
Purchaser may perform Supplier’s obligations 

The Purchaser may, either itself or by a third party, perform any obligation which the 
Supplier was obliged to perform under this Contract but which it failed to perform 
(including complying with a direction of the Purchaser’s Representative).  The Losses, 
costs, expenses and damages suffered or incurred by the Purchaser in performing 
such an obligation will be a debt due from the Supplier to the Purchaser. 

7 
Information Documents  

7.1 
Information documents not warranted 

The Purchaser does not warrant, guarantee, make any representation or assume any 
duty of care with respect to the completeness, accuracy or adequacy of any 
Information Documents and is not liable to the Supplier upon Loss arising out of or in 
connection with the Information Documents. 

7.2 
Supplier has informed itself 

The Supplier warrants that it did (and it is deemed to have done) each of the following 
things before the date of the Contract: 

(a) 
examined and carefully checked and acquired actual knowledge of the contents 
of the documents which constitute this Contract; 

(b) 
informed itself completely as to: 

(i) 
the risks, contingencies and other circumstances which might have an 
effect on the execution or cost of Work under the Contract; 

(ii) 
the nature of the Work under the Contract and of the plant, equipment, 
materials and other necessary items;  

(iii) 
the availability and cost of labour, plant, equipment, materials and other 
items required; 

(iv) 
all legislative requirements and requirements of Authorities; and 

(c) 
satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its price for Work under 
the Contract and that the Contract Price covers the cost of complying with all of 
its obligations under the Contract and of all matters and things necessary for the 
due and proper performance and completion of its obligations under the 
Contract, 

and any failure by the Supplier to have done any of those things will not relieve the 
Supplier of its obligation to perform and complete Work under the Contract in 
accordance with the Contract. 

8 
Subcontracting 

8.1 
Approval and liability 

(a) 
The Supplier must not subcontract any of the Work under the Contract without 
the written approval of the Purchaser.  When seeking approval of a 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 15 

Subcontractor, the Supplier must provide any information requested by the 
Purchaser.  The Purchaser may impose any conditions it considers necessary in 
giving its approval. Approval is given to the subcontractors listed in  schedule 5  
for the work identified in  schedule 5 .  

(b) 
The Supplier will be liable for the acts and omissions of subcontractors as if they 
were the acts and omissions of the Supplier and will not, by subcontracting the 
Work under the Contract, be relieved of any of its obligations or liabilities under 
this Contract. 

9 
The Site 

9.1 
Access to Site 

(a) 
The Purchaser must provide non-exclusive access to the Site sufficient for the 
Supplier to perform the Work under the Contract.  

(b) 
The Supplier must ensure that the Supplier, its employees, agents and 
subcontractors: 

(i) 
without limiting any other provision of the Contract, at all times: 

(A) 
 keep themselves informed as to the requirements of, comply with 
and not do anything which may place the Purchaser in breach of 
laws or legislative requirements applying to the Site; 

(B) 
comply with all procedures, policies, or rules adopted from time to 
time by the Purchaser in connection with the Site; and 

(C) 
 comply with the directions (if any) given to the Supplier by the 
Purchaser or others authorised by the Purchaser or any legislative 
requirement at any time in connection with the Site (including access 
to and use of the Site);  

(ii) 
only access the Site as specified in this Contract or as otherwise directed 
by the Purchaser’s Representative; 

9.2 
Site forms part of Existing Operation 

(a) 
This  clause 9.2  applies to the extent that the Site forms part of the Existing 
Operation which will continue to operate during the term of this Contract. 

(b) 
The Supplier acknowledges and agrees that the Site is critical to the Existing 
Operation's ongoing day to day operations. 

(c) 
In particular, the Supplier must: 

(i) 
comply with all directions of the Purchaser’s Representative in relation to 
minimising disruption to the conduct of the Existing Operation arising out 
of the Work under the Contract; 

(ii) 
ensure that Work under the Contract does not materially interfere with the 
Existing Operation except as authorised by the Purchaser; 

(iii) 
ensure that Work under the Contract does not materially interfere with the 
activities of businesses or persons occupying Adjoining Sites or land in the 
vicinity of the Site; 

(iv) 
ensure that the Work under the Contract does not place the Purchaser in 
breach of its obligations under the relevant Environmental Legislation; and 

(v) 
ensure that the Work under the Contract does not place the Purchaser in 
breach of its obligations under the relevant Safety Legislation. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 16 

10 
Warranties and Intellectual Property 

10.1 
Supplier warranties 

The Supplier warrants that:  

(a) 
the Equipment will: 

(i) 
at the Time of Delivery, be new in every respect and in good order and 
condition;  

(ii) 
satisfy the Performance Criteria (if applicable pursuant to  clause 2.3 ); 

(iii) 
comply with the description in the Contract; 

(iv) 
be of good and merchantable quality; 

(v) 
be fit for the purposes stated in, and reasonably inferred or ascertainable 
from, the Contract; 

(vi) 
comply with any other warranties or guarantees contained in the Contract; 

(vii) 
comply with any warranties or guarantees ordinarily supplied by the 
Supplier or the manufacturer of the Equipment; 

(viii) comply with the provisions of any legislation applicable to it; 

(ix) 
comply with all relevant Australian Standards; and 

(x) 
be free from all Security Interests; and 

(b) 
at all times it is and will be suitably qualified and experienced and exercises due 
skill, care and diligence in the performance of the Work under the Contract; and 

(c) 
the Work under the Contract is and will be performed in conformance with the 
Policies. 

10.2 
Warranties additional  

The requirements in  clause 10.1  are in addition to any warranties or guarantees which 
are or may be implied under the  Sale of Goods Act 1895  (WA), the  Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010  (Cth)   and any other legislation applicable to the Work under the 
Contract.   

10.3 
Subcontractor and supplier warranties 

The Supplier must: 

(a) 
ensure that the Purchaser will have the benefit of all warranties given by all 
subcontractors and suppliers in relation to services performed by them on the 
Work under the Contract and materials provided by them which are used in the 
Work under the Contract; and 

(b) 
use its best endeavours to obtain all other warranties reasonably required by the 
Purchaser. 

10.4 
Intellectual Property Rights 

(a) 
The Supplier grants to the Purchaser a royalty free, perpetual and irrevocable 
licence to use the Intellectual Property Rights associated with all Documentation 
for any purpose associated with the use, maintenance or alteration of the 
Equipment and a right to grant sub-licences on the same terms to any person for 
any purpose associated with the use, maintenance or alteration of the Work 
under the Contract.  The Supplier warrants that it has, or will procure, all 
necessary Intellectual Property Rights to comply with its obligations under this 
clause 10.4 . 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 17 

(b) 
The Supplier warrants that it has all property and Intellectual Property Rights 
necessary to perform the Work under the Contract in accordance with the 
Contract and indemnifies the Purchaser against any Loss suffered or incurred by 
the Purchaser as a consequence of any claim by a third party that it has a right 
to any property or Intellectual Property Right in any component of the Work 
under the Contract. 

11 
Variations 

11.1 
Right to direct Variations 

The Purchaser’s Representative may, at any time, direct the Supplier to perform a 
Variation and the Supplier must perform the Variation.  The direction must be in writing 
and must state that it is a direction for a Variation.  If the direction states that the 
Supplier must provide an estimate of the cost of the Variation, then the Supplier must 
provide the Purchaser’s Representative with an estimate within the time specified in 
the direction and if no time is specified, then promptly. 

11.2 
Notification 

If the Supplier considers that a direction from the Purchaser’s Representative is a 
direction for a Variation which does not comply with  clause 11.1 , the Supplier must, if 
possible before commencing work on the Variation and in any event within 5 Business 
Days of the direction, notify the Purchaser’s Representative in writing that the Supplier 
considers the work is a Variation and provide an estimate of any Program 
consequences, and adjustments to the Contract Price, arising from the purported 
Variation. The Purchaser’s Representative will, within 3 Business Days, either: 

(a) 
confirm the direction is a Variation and issue a direction complying with 
clause 11.1 ; or 

(b) 
notify the Supplier that it is not a Variation.  

11.3 
Supplier to submit its final cost 

Within 10 Business Days of completion of the Work under the Contract which is the 
subject of a Variation, the Supplier must submit to the Purchaser’s Representative its 
final claim in respect of the Variation.  If, through no fault of the Supplier, the Supplier 
is unable to determine all costs associated with the Variation within 10 Business Days 
of completing the Work under the Contract the subject of the Variation, the Supplier 
must: 

(a) 
within 10 Business Days of completing the Variation, provide the Purchaser's 
Representative the Supplier's best estimate of the cost of the Variation, along 
with evidence to support this estimate; and 

(b) 
within 20 Business days of completing the Variation, provide the Purchaser's 
Representative the Supplier's final claim in respect of the Variation.  

11.4 
Cost of Variations 

(a) 
Where the Purchaser’s Representative has given the Supplier a direction to 
perform a Variation which complies with  clause 11.1 , the Contract Price must be 
adjusted by the amount calculated in accordance with  clause 16.  

(b) 
The Supplier can only claim payment for a Variation under  clause 15.4  or 
clause 23.1  

11.5 
Bar on claims 

Unless the Supplier has:  


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 18 

(a) 
either received a direction which complies with  clause 11.1  or has delivered a 
notice with the details and within the time required by  clause 11.2 ; and 

(b) 
submitted its final claim in respect of the Work under the Contract the subject of 
the Variation with the details and within the time required by  clause 11.3 ,  

the Supplier will have no Entitlement as a consequence of complying with any direction 
given by the Purchaser’s Representative, however this will not prevent the Purchaser’s 
Representative from reducing the Contract Price in accordance with  clause 16  by 
reason of the Variation direction.  Under no circumstances will the Supplier have any 
Entitlement as a consequence of complying with any direction given by the 
Purchaser’s Representative exceeding the amount of the Supplier’s final claim 
submitted in accordance with  clause 11.3 . 

11.6 
Direction to perform Work under the Contract 

The Supplier acknowledges and agrees that a direction given by the Purchaser’s 
Representative requiring the Supplier to perform the Work under the Contract, in 
accordance with the requirements of the Contract will not be a Variation to the Work 
under the Contract and will not entitle the Supplier to make any claim against the 
Purchaser. 

12 
Supplier’s personnel and subcontractors 

12.1 
Supplier’s Representative 

The Supplier must ensure that the Supplier’s Representative: 

(a) 
has the authority to receive directions on behalf of the Supplier from the 
Purchaser; 

(b) 
has the authority of the Supplier to carry out the overall co-ordination and 
supervision of the Supplier’s obligations under this Contract; 

(c) 
is competent; 

(d) 
is not discharged as the Supplier’s Representative without the written approval 
of the Purchaser (which cannot be unreasonably withheld); and 

(e) 
is not replaced by the Supplier without the written approval of the Purchaser. 

If the Supplier’s Representative knows of a matter, that knowledge is taken to also be 
within the knowledge of the Supplier. 

12.2 
Employees and subcontractors 

The Supplier must: 

(a) 
employ and must ensure that its subcontractors employ only people who have 
the skill, competence and experience to perform the job they are retained to do;  

(b) 
ensure that all employees and subcontractor employees hold the necessary 
licences, permits, endorsements or other certificates required by legislative 
requirements in carrying out its obligations under the Contract;  

(c) 
retain sufficient personnel to perform the Work under the Contract efficiently and 
in accordance with this Contract; 

(d) 
subject to  clause 12.3 , not replace any of the Supplier's personnel without the 
Purchaser's prior written approval;  

(e) 
if any of the Supplier's personnel become seriously ill or resign from the 
employment of the Supplier, or are removed in accordance with  clause   12.3 , 
replace them with persons:  


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 19 

(i) 
of at least equivalent experience, ability and expertise;  

(ii) 
who comply with paragraphs (b) and (c); and  

(iii) 
approved by the Purchaser's Representative; and 

(f) 
ensure that its employees and subcontractor employees submit to and comply 
with the Purchaser’s Policies. 

12.3 
Removal 

The Purchaser’s Representative may direct the Supplier to remove from any activity 
connected with the Work under the Contract within such time as the Purchaser’s 
Representative directs, any person engaged in the performance of the Work under the 
Contract whom the Purchaser’s Representative considers to be undesirable to perform 
the Work under the Contract. 

12.4 
Occupational Health and Safety  

(a) 
The Supplier is responsible for the occupational health and safety at all times of 
all workers engaged or caused to be engaged by it (including its employees, 
employees of the Purchaser or the Purchaser’s contractors, and the Supplier’s 
subcontractors and their respective employees, who are working or attending at 
any working environment under the Supplier’s control) in connection with the 
Contract, or any part of the Work under the Contract. 

(b) 
The Supplier must ensure that: 

(i) 
all Work under the Contract is executed in a safe manner; 

(ii) 
in carrying out its obligations under the Contract it complies with all Safety 
Legislation (including any duty imposed on the Supplier by the applicable 
Safety Legislation as a designer, manufacturer, importer, supplier, installer 
or constructor of the Equipment);  

(iii) 
all subcontractors, and all agents and employees of the Supplier and any 
subcontractor, comply with all Safety Legislation; and 

(iv) 
there is no risk to the health and safety of any person as a result of 
carrying out any part of the Work under the Contract. 

(c) 
The Supplier, at no additional cost to the Purchaser, must, and must ensure that 
all subcontractors and all agents and employees of the Supplier and all 
subcontractors when on the Site, promptly obey all directions and instructions 
given by the person appointed to a Statutory Position relating to the health and 
safety of persons or property, or to the proper compliance with the Safety 
Legislation.  To the extent of any inconsistency, this  clause 12.4  prevails over all 
other provisions of the Contract. 

(d) 
If the Supplier fails to comply with an obligation under the Safety Legislation or 
this  clause 12.4 , the Purchaser may perform or have performed the obligations 
on the Supplier’s behalf and the costs and expenses incurred by the Purchaser 
are recoverable from the Supplier as a debt due to the Purchaser. 

(e) 
Subject to the qualification set out in  clause 12.4(f)  below, to the maximum 
extent permitted by law, and without limiting any other indemnity by the Supplier, 
the Supplier indemnifies the Purchaser against any and all suits, actions, 
proceedings, and Loss of whatsoever nature (including legal costs on a full 
indemnity basis) which the Purchaser may suffer or incur or have brought 
against it, or which may be imposed under or may arise out of enforcement of 
any section of any Safety Legislation, arising out of or in any way in connection 
with any failure by the Supplier to comply with any Safety Legislation or any 
breach by the Supplier of its obligations under this  clause 12.4 . 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 20 

(f) 
Nothing in  clause 12.4(e)  requires the Supplier to indemnify the Purchaser for 
any liability to pay a fine for an offence under the Safety Legislation. 

13 
Inspection and rejection 

13.1 
Hold Points 

(a) 
The Supplier must not proceed with the fabrication or manufacture of any item of 
Equipment beyond a Hold Point, if any, without first receiving written approval 
from the Purchaser’s Representative to do so. 

(b) 
The Supplier must provide the Purchaser’s Representative with written notice of 
at least the period specified in  Item 17  of  schedule 1  in advance of it reaching a 
Hold Point. 

(c) 
Following receipt of the Supplier’s notice referred to in  clause 13.1(b) , the 
Purchaser must then by written notice to the Supplier, nominate a date and time 
during normal business hours at which the Purchaser’s employees, 
representatives, contractors or agents will be present at the Supplier’s premises 
at which the Equipment is being fabricated or manufactured, to carry out a joint 
inspection with the Supplier, of the relevant Equipment.  The date so nominated 
must be a date no later than the period specified in  schedule 1  after the date 
that the Hold Point will be reached as set out in the Supplier’s notice. 

(d) 
The Supplier must provide documentary evidence in advance of the joint 
inspection, of any tests (and test results) which are required to have been 
carried out prior to or upon reaching the relevant Hold Point. 

(e) 
Representatives of each of the Purchaser and the Supplier must attend the joint 
inspection of the relevant Equipment at the date and time nominated in the 
written notice provided under  clause 13.1(c)  or as otherwise agreed by the 
parties.  Within 5 Business Days of the later of the joint inspection and the 
provision by the Supplier of the evidence required under  clause 13.1(d) , the 
Purchaser’s Representative must by written notice to the Supplier, either: 

(i) 
approve the fabrication or manufacture of the Equipment to proceed; or  

(ii) 
specify any Defect or any steps to be taken before the Supplier can 
proceed with the fabrication or manufacture of the Equipment including 
whether the process set out in this  clause 13.1  must be repeated in 
respect of the relevant Hold Point. 

(f) 
The Supplier will not be entitled to an extension to the Time for Delivery in 
relation to any delay caused by the cessation of the manufacture or fabrication of 
any item of Equipment in connection with a Hold Point or the delay in the receipt 
of the written approval to be provided under  clause 13.1(a),  unless the 
Purchaser is in breach of its obligations under  clause 13.1(c)  or  clause 13.1(e) . 

13.2 
Entry for inspection 

The Purchaser, its employees and agents may, at any time prior to Delivery, enter the 
premises where the Equipment is being manufactured to inspect, examine or test the 
Equipment.  The Supplier must do all things necessary to allow such entry, inspection, 
examination or testing to be effected. 

13.3 
Quality assurance 

If requested by the Purchaser, the Supplier must provide the Purchaser with the 
following information within 5 Business Days of the request:  

(a) 
the mode and place of manufacture of the Equipment; 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 21 

(b) 
the source of supply of materials and other components used in the manufacture 
of the Equipment; 

(c) 
tests conducted on the Equipment during and at completion of the manufacture 
of the Equipment and the outcome of such test and any other information 
reasonably required by the Purchaser concerning the quality of the Equipment 
manufactured by the Supplier; and  

(d) 
the Supplier’s quality assurance system and procedures in respect of the 
manufacture of the Equipment. 

13.4 
Supplier’s obligations remain 

No inspection, examination, testing or approval by or on behalf of the Purchaser, will 
relieve the Supplier of its obligations under the Contract, even if the Equipment 
contains a Defect which should have been discovered by the inspection, examination 
or testing. 

13.5 
Notice to remedy 

If the Purchaser’s Representative becomes aware of any Work under the Contract 
(including any part, material, equipment, plant or other component provided by the 
Supplier for incorporation in the Work under the Contract, or in the course of 
manufacture or fabrication by or on behalf of the Supplier) which is Defective or 
otherwise does not comply with the Contract, the Purchaser’s Representative may give 
the Supplier a notice requiring: 

(a) 
the Defect or non-compliance to be remedied (including by replacing the 
Defective or non-compliant Work under the Contract); or 

(b) 
the Supplier to carry out work to overcome the Defect or non-compliance,  

within the time specified in the notice or if no time is stated within a reasonable period 
of time, and at the Supplier’s cost and risk. 

13.6 
Failure to remedy in time 

If the Defect or other breach is not remedied within the time identified in the notice, the 
Purchaser may, without prejudice to any other rights it may have and by notice in 
writing addressed to the Supplier, terminate the Contract and  clauses 28  and  29.1  will 
apply. 

14 
Testing and training 

14.1 
Meaning of test 

The word ‘test’ when used in this  clause 14  includes examine and measure. 

14.2 
Direction to test 

The Purchaser’s Representative may direct that the Equipment must be: 

(a) 
tested at any time prior to the issue of the Final Payment Schedule; or 

(b) 
tested and passed before the Equipment is Delivered, 

with the results of any such test promptly provided to the Purchaser’s Representative.  
The Purchaser’s Representative may direct that the Supplier, the Purchaser or a third 
party nominee of the Purchaser conducts such test. 

14.3 
Notice of testing 

Before conducting a test, the party conducting the test must give reasonable written 
notice to the other of the time, date and place of the test.  If the notice has been given 
and the other party does not attend, the test may nevertheless proceed. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 22 

14.4 
Costs where Work under the Contract does not comply 

If results of the tests show that the Equipment does not comply with the Contract, the 
costs incurred by the Purchaser in conducting the tests will be a debt due from the 
Supplier to the Purchaser. 

14.5 
Training 

If the Supplier is required to provide any training or instruction to the Purchaser or 
employees or contractors of the Purchaser in connection with the Equipment, the 
Supplier must: 

(a) 
ensure that all training or instruction is: 

(i) 
carried out by suitably qualified and skilled persons who are familiar with 
the operation, use and maintenance of the plant, equipment or services; 

(ii) 
designed to meet the requirements of the trainee; and 

(iii) 
carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Contract; and 

(b) 
provide the training and instruction as a condition precedent to Delivery. 

15 
Price and payment 

15.1 
Obligation to pay 

Subject to  clause 15.5 ,   the Purchaser must pay the Supplier the Contract Price as 
consideration for the Supplier’s fulfilment of all its obligations under this Contract. 

15.2 
Sufficiency of Contract Price 

The Supplier acknowledges that the Contract Price: 

(a) 
is fixed (or where rates make up the Contract Price, the rates are fixed) and will 
not be subject to adjustment for exchange rate variations, changes in taxes, 
changes in law or Authority requirements, or any other rise and fall costs;  

(b) 
includes everything necessary for the performance of the Work under the 
Contract and all of the Supplier’s obligations under the Contract; and 

(c) 
is wholly sufficient to carry out and complete the Work under the Contract in 
accordance with the Contract and without adjustment, except to the extent 
expressly provided for in the Contract. 

15.3 
Security and Insurance  

The Supplier shall not be entitled to make a claim for payment for Equipment supplied 
or the Work under the Contract, and the Purchaser shall have no liability to pay any 
amounts until:  

(a) 
all security to be provided by the Supplier under  clause 5.1  has been provided in 
accordance with the Contract; and 

(b) 
the Supplier has complied with  clause 25.2(a)  

15.4 
Payment claims 

(a) 
Subject to  clause 15.3 , the Supplier must, at the times identified in  Item 18  of  
schedule 1 , submit to the Purchaser’s Representative a payment claim which 
identifies clearly the amount owing to the Supplier under this Contract. Each 
payment claim must:  

(i) 
be in writing, include the payment being claimed and be in a form 
approved by the Purchaser's Representative;  


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 23 

(ii) 
include substantiation as required by the Contract and the Purchaser’s 
Representative; 

(iii) 
include a description of the items of the Equipment supplied by the 
Supplier, if any, and any other Work under the Contract performed by the 
Supplier which entitles the Supplier to payment; and   

(iv) 
not include claims for: 

(A) 
Variations or deemed Variations in excess of any amount priced by 
the Purchaser's Representative under  clause 11.4 ;  

(B) 
delay costs other than any amount for delay costs set out in a 
written notice given by the Purchaser's Representative under  clause 
17.11 ;  

(C) 
except to the extent allowed under paragraphs (A) to (B) above, any 
expense, loss or damage suffered or incurred by the Supplier for 
breach of the Contract.  

15.5 
Payments 

The amount payable by the Purchaser to the Supplier in relation to each payment 
claim is calculated as follows: 

(a) 
in accordance with the milestone payment, or milestone payments, set out in 
Item 19  of  schedule 1 ;  

(b) 
if rates apply, by applying the rates to the quantities properly supplied by the 
Supplier in accordance with this Contract, as determined by the Purchaser’s 
Representative; 

(c) 
if Variations or delay costs have been agreed under  clause 11  or  clause 17.11 
respectively, the costs as agreed; and 

(d) 
by adding or subtracting any other amounts due from one party to the other 
under the Contract. 

15.6 
Payment schedule 

(a) 
Following receipt of a payment claim provided in accordance with  clause 15.4  
the Purchaser's Representative must, within ten Business Days, determine the 
amount payable in respect of that claim and issue a payment schedule to the 
Purchaser and the Supplier setting out that determination.  

(b) 
A payment schedule referred to in  clause 15.6(a) , must:  

(i) 
be in writing; 

(ii) 
identify the payment claim to which it relates; 

(iii) 
state the Purchaser's Representative’s reasonable determination of: 

(A) 
the amount payable in accordance with  clause 15.5 ;  

(B) 
any money which is payable, or which may become payable, from 
the Supplier to the Purchaser in respect of the Contract or 
Equipment supplied under the Contract;  

(iv) 
indicate the amount payable to the Supplier, or from the Supplier to the 
Purchaser, being the amounts assessed under  clause 15.6(b)(iii)(A)  less 
the amounts assessed under  clause 15.6(b)(iii)(B) ;  

(v) 
state that if no amount is payable or if the amount payable to the Supplier 
is less than the amount claimed for payment by the Supplier: 

(A) 
why the scheduled amount is less or no payment is proposed; and 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 24 

(B) 
if the reason is that the Purchaser is withholding payment, the 
reason why the Purchaser is withholding payment.  

15.7 
Timing of payment 

(a) 
The Supplier must give the Purchaser a valid tax invoice in accordance with  
clause 34.5  for the amount determined by the Purchaser's Representative under 
clause 15.6(b)(iv)  within two Business Days of receipt of a payment schedule 
under  clause 15.615.6(a) .  

(b) 
Where an amount is certified as being due for payment to the Supplier by the 
Purchaser in a payment schedule issued under  clause 15.615.6(a) , the 
Purchaser must pay the Supplier the amount certified within 20 Business Days 
of receipt by the Purchaser's Representative of the payment claim issued under 
clause 15.4 . 

(c) 
Where an amount is indicated in a payment schedule as being due for payment 
to the Purchaser by the Supplier, the Supplier must pay the Purchaser the 
amount within ten Business Days after receipt of that payment schedule, after 
which time the Purchaser may recover such amount from the Supplier as a debt.  

15.8 
Interest on payments  

If any money due from the Purchaser to the Supplier or the Supplier to the Purchaser 
as indicated in a payment schedule or Final Payment Schedule, remains unpaid after 
the last date it should have been paid, interest at the rate prescribed under the  Civil 
Judgments Enforcement Act 2004 , on the amount remaining unpaid after the due date, 
will be due and payable from the date due until the sum is paid. 

15.9 
Payment for Equipment not Delivered 

The Purchaser’s Representative may direct the Supplier: 

(a) 
in respect of Equipment that has not been Delivered, to provide additional 
security (in the form required by  clause 5.1 ) in an amount equal to the payment 
to be made for that Equipment; or  

(b) 
otherwise, to provide evidence that: 

(i) 
property and ownership in the Equipment has passed to the Purchaser or 
will pass on the making of the progress payment; and 

(ii) 
the Equipment has been properly stored, labelled the property of the 
Purchaser and insured. 

15.10 Payment on account only 

A payment made in relation to this Contract is not evidence of the value of the 
Equipment, an admission of liability or an admission that the Equipment is satisfactory, 
but is a payment on account only. 

15.11 Right to set off 

Without limiting the Purchaser’s rights under any provision in this Contract, the 
Purchaser may deduct from any amount due to the Supplier (including in respect of a 
payment claim) or from any security held under  clause 5  or  clause 15.6  any sum 
which the Purchaser asserts is or may become payable by the Supplier to the 
Purchaser, whether or not: 

(a) 
the Purchaser’s right to payment arises by way of damages (whether liquidated 
or unliquidated), debt, restitution or otherwise; or 

(b) 
the factual basis giving rise to the Purchaser’s right to payment arises out of this 
Contract, any other contract, or is independent of any contract. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 25 

Nothing in this  clause 15.11  will affect the right of the Purchaser to recover from the 
Supplier the whole of any such sum or any balance that remains owing. 

16 
Valuing Variations and adjustment to the Contract Price 

Adjustments to the Contract Price made in accordance with this Contract must be 
ascertained by the Purchaser’s Representative as follows: 

(a) 
to the extent that the parties have agreed the amount of the adjustment, then the 
amount agreed; 

(b) 
to the extent that this Contract provides for the amount of the adjustment, then 
that amount; 

(c) 
to the extent that the rates contained in  schedule 6  apply, by applying those 
rates to the quantities properly supplied in accordance with this Contract, as 
measured by the Purchaser’s Representative; 

(d) 
if this Contract provides that the Supplier is entitled to delay costs, by applying 
the delay costs which the Supplier can demonstrate that it has incurred up to the 
maximum rate in  Item 20  of  schedule 1 ; or 

(e) 
to the extent that  clauses 16(a)  to  16(d)  do not apply, by arriving at a 
reasonable amount, having regard to any increase or decrease in the costs that 
have been or will be incurred by the Supplier, as determined by the Purchaser’s 
Representative. 

17 
Time and Delivery 

17.1 
No delay 

The Supplier must: 

(a) 
proceed with the Work under the Contract with due expedition and without delay 
and ensure that the Equipment is Delivered to the Point of Delivery by the Time 
for Delivery; 

(b) 
not suspend the Work under the Contract unless given a direction under  clause 
17.3  or pursuant to a statutory right to suspend; and 

(c) 
take all steps necessary to minimise the effect of any delay to the Work under 
the Contract. 

17.2 
Time and place for Delivery 

(a) 
The Supplier must Deliver the Equipment to the Point of Delivery by the Time for 
Delivery during the delivery hours set out in  Item 21  of  schedule 1 .  The 
Supplier must give the Purchaser’s Representative at least 48 hours’ notice of 
the time at which the Supplier intends to Deliver the Equipment. 

(b) 
The party stated in  Item 22  of  schedule 1  must   load or   unload the Equipment at 
the Point of Delivery (as applicable). 

17.3 
Suspension 

The Purchaser’s Representative may direct the Supplier to suspend the performance 
of the whole or part of the Work under the Contract. The Contract Price will be 
adjusted if the Supplier incurs any reasonable, direct additional costs as a result of 
such suspension (as objectively substantiated to the Purchaser’s Representative), 
provided that the suspension was not necessary because of an act, default or 
omission of the Supplier. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 26 

17.4 
No obligation to accept 

(a) 
The Purchaser is not obliged to accept Delivery of the Equipment at any time 
other than the Time for Delivery or at any place other than the Point of Delivery.  
The Supplier is responsible for holding and storing the Equipment until the Time 
for Delivery. 

(b) 
If the Purchaser or any of its representatives signs a delivery docket or other 
document required by the Supplier to acknowledge delivery, the Purchaser will 
not be taken to have accepted the Equipment as being in accordance with the 
terms of this Contract (whether as to quantity or quality).  This applies despite 
any terms and conditions appearing on any such acknowledgment of delivery. 

17.5 
Power to grant extensions 

The Purchaser’s Representative may, at any time and for any reason, by notice in 
writing to the Supplier, extend the Time for Delivery.  The Purchaser’s Representative 
is not under any circumstances obliged to exercise this power reasonably or for the 
benefit of the Supplier (including where the Supplier has no entitlement to an extension 
of time by reason of a failure to comply with notification provisions in this  clause 17 ) or 
at all. 

17.6 
Supplier’s entitlement 

The only circumstances under which the Supplier will be entitled to an extension to the 
Time for Delivery are when all of the following requirements have been met: 

(a) 
the Supplier can demonstrate to the reasonable satisfaction of the Purchaser’s 
Representative that it has been or will be delayed in Delivering the Equipment to 
the Point of Delivery by the Time for Delivery by a Qualifying Cause of Delay 
(having regard to  clauses 17.7 ); 

(b) 
the Contract does not provide that the Supplier has no entitlement in relation to 
that Qualifying Cause of Delay; and 

(c) 
the Supplier has given all notices strictly in accordance with the requirements of 
this  clause 17 . 

17.7 
Multiple causes 

Where one period of delay has more than one cause, and if one or more of those 
causes is not a Qualifying Cause of Delay, the Supplier will have no entitlement to an 
extension of time for that period of delay.  

17.8 
Notification 

Where the Supplier wishes to make a claim for an extension of time then it must give a 
notice in writing to the Purchaser’s Representative as soon as reasonably practicable, 
and in any event within ten Business Days of when the Supplier became aware of a 
delay or the likelihood of a delay, or when the Supplier should reasonably have 
become aware of a delay or the likelihood of a delay.  The Supplier's written notice 
must provide full detailed particulars of the cause of the delay and how that cause has 
delayed or may delay the Time for Delivery, the period of the delay (including the dates 
of commencement and, if applicable, conclusion of the delay) and the extension of 
time claimed. 

17.9 
Period of extension 

The period of any extension of time to the Time for Delivery to which the Supplier is 
entitled under this clause will be the reasonable period by which the Purchaser’s 
Representative determines the Supplier has been or will be delayed in effecting 
Delivery of the Equipment to the Point of Delivery by the Time for Delivery as a 
consequence of the cause of the delay.  


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 27 

17.10 No prejudice 

A failure of the Purchaser’s Representative to grant a reasonable extension of time will 
not cause the Time for Delivery to be set at large but nothing in this  clause   17.10  will 
prejudice any right of the Supplier to damages.  

17.11 Delay costs 

(a) 
Subject to  clause 17.11(b) , where the Supplier has been granted an extension 
of time under this clause in relation to a Compensable Cause, the Supplier may 
recover the actual direct delay costs which the Supplier can demonstrate it has 
reasonably and necessarily incurred up to the maximum rate in  Item 20  of  
schedule 1 . 

(b) 
Delay or disruption costs as provided for in  clause 17.11(a)  are payable only in 
respect of delays to the Time for Delivery of all of the Equipment. 

(c) 
The Supplier can only claim payment for delay costs under  clause 15.4  or 
clause 23.1  

17.12 No entitlement 

Except as provided in  clauses 17.6 ,  17.9  and  17.11 , the Supplier will have no 
Entitlement in relation to delay or disruption. 

18 
Delay liquidated damages 

18.1 
Liability for delay liquidated damages 

(a) 
If the Supplier has not Delivered, or is deemed under  clause 21  to have not 
Delivered, the Equipment to the Point of Delivery by the Time for Delivery, the 
Supplier will be liable to the Purchaser for liquidated damages for the amount 
identified in  Item 23  of  schedule 1  for every day or part of a day from the Time 
for Delivery up to and including the Time of Delivery or termination of the 
Contract, whichever is the earlier.   

(b) 
Liquidated damages payable pursuant to this  clause 18.1  will immediately 
become a debt due and payable by the Supplier to the Purchaser.   

(c) 
The Purchaser’s Representative may, at any time, give the Supplier a written 
demand for any liquidated damages payable by the Supplier pursuant to this 
clause 18.1 . 

(d) 
The Supplier acknowledges that the level of liquidated damages identified in 
schedule 1  is a genuine pre-estimate of the loss suffered by the Purchaser for a 
failure of the Supplier to Deliver the Equipment to the Point of Delivery by the 
Time for Delivery and is not a penalty. 

(e) 
Payment by the Supplier of any liquidated damages will not relieve the Supplier 
of its obligation to Deliver the Equipment to the Point of Delivery, or from any of 
its other obligations or liabilities under the Contract. 

18.2 
If amount nil 

If  schedule 1  is not completed or is completed by words which indicate that liquidated 
damages will not apply to this Contract (whether by the use of the words ‘not 
applicable’, ‘nil’ or otherwise) or if  clause 18.1  is found to be unenforceable for any 
reason, the Supplier must indemnify the Purchaser from any Loss suffered or incurred 
by the Purchaser by reason of the Supplier’s delay in Delivering the Equipment to the 
Point of Delivery by the Time for Delivery. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 28 

19 
Risk and title 

19.1 
Supplier’s warranties 

The Supplier warrants that: 

(a) 
it will have full unencumbered title in the Equipment and will have the right to sell 
the Equipment; and  

(b) 
the Purchaser will have quiet possession of the Equipment. 

19.2 
Passing of title 

Title in the Equipment and any other material or equipment for incorporation into the 
Work under the Contract will pass to the Purchaser at the earlier to occur of: 

(a) 
Delivery of the Equipment or the other material or equipment (as the case may 
be) to the Point of Delivery;  

(b) 
when payment is made for the Equipment or the other material or equipment (in 
each case, whether the payment is in full or in part).  

Nothing in this  clause 19.2  limits or affects  clause 19.3  and notwithstanding that 
ownership of the Equipment or any other item may have passed to the Purchaser, the 
Supplier must still ensure that the item is properly stored (and in the case of items 
being transported to the Point of Delivery, adequately packaged), labelled the property 
of the Purchaser and adequately protected and insured. 

19.3 
Risk 

The Equipment will be at the risk of the Supplier until Delivery of the Equipment, even 
if Delivery is delayed through the fault of the Purchaser and the Supplier must: 

(a) 
make good any damage to the Equipment which occurs prior to Delivery; and  

(b) 
provide storage and protection necessary to preserve the Equipment until 
Delivery. 

20 
Transport of Equipment 

20.1 
Cost of carriage 

The cost of carriage of the Equipment to the Point of Delivery (including payment of all 
freight, insurance, port handling fees and charges and, where the Supplier is required 
to unload the Equipment under  clause 17.2(b),  all costs of unloading the Equipment at 
the Point of Delivery) is taken to be included in the Contract Price and must be borne 
by the Supplier. 

20.2 
Consolidation of deliveries 

The Supplier must, in consultation with the Purchaser’s Representative, consolidate 
deliveries of Equipment to provide for the minimum number of shipments. 

20.3 
Requirements of Program 

The Program must clearly indicate the shipment dates and show the periods allowed 
for shipping and other activities associated with shipment and transportation of the 
Equipment. 

20.4 
Protection of Equipment 

The Supplier must ensure that: 

(a) 
all Equipment is protected from damage due to weather, climatic conditions and 
handling; 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 29 

(b) 
all Equipment which is to be shipped by sea is suitably and adequately protected 
and packed against possible damage resulting from ingress of salt water and 
any likely damage including condensation and corrosion; 

(c) 
all timber used in crates or pallets is treated against infestation in accordance 
with the requirements of Authorities and legislation and that any certificates 
required in relation to those requirements are available at the time of shipment; 

(d) 
shipping marks and numbers are identical to the Purchaser’s order or Contract 
number, and item descriptions are identical to those given in any custom tariff 
classification; and 

(e) 
each package or crate is plainly marked with the Purchaser’s name and address, 
weight of package, Contract number, job number and any other destination or 
shipping information which may be required by the Purchaser’s Representative. 

20.5 
Progressive Delivery 

(a) 
Where the Equipment is to be Delivered progressively and there is more than 
one date specified as the Time for Delivery, then the interpretation of ‘Time for 
Delivery’ and the provisions of this Contract will apply separately to each 
Delivery and references to the Equipment will mean so much of the Equipment 
as is comprised by the relevant Delivery. 

(b) 
Where the Equipment is to be Delivered progressively but there is only one date 
specified as the Time for Delivery, then Delivery of all of the Equipment must be 
completed by the Time for Delivery, and interim Deliveries must be made in 
accordance with the Program or at times agreed in advance with the Purchaser’s 
Representative. 

21 
Acceptance or rejection of Equipment 

21.1 
Certificate of Acceptance or Notice of Non-Acceptance 

Before the expiry of the Acceptance Period, the Purchaser’s Representative must 
either: 

(a) 
if the Purchaser’s Representative is of the opinion that the Equipment is 
Acceptable, issue a Certificate of Acceptance which certifies the Time of 
Acceptance and any minor Defects which do not prevent the Equipment from 
being reasonably capable of being used for the purposes for which it is intended; 
or 

(b) 
if the Purchaser’s Representative is not of the opinion that the Equipment is 
Acceptable, issue to the Supplier a Notice of Non-Acceptance and either: 

(i) 
direct the Supplier to take whatever steps are required to rectify or replace 
the Equipment so that the Equipment is Acceptable;  

(ii) 
direct the Supplier to deliver a proposal for rectification or replacement so 
that the Equipment is Acceptable; 

(iii) 
advise the Supplier that it elects to accept the Equipment and claim 
damages; or 

(iv) 
reject the Equipment. 

The Purchaser’s Representative may issue a Certificate of Acceptance or a Notice of 
Non-Acceptance under this clause in relation to some or all of the Equipment. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 30 

21.2 
Rectification of minor omissions 

On receipt of a Certificate of Acceptance, the Supplier must as soon as practicable 
rectify the minor Defects (if any) in the Equipment. 

21.3 
Rectification or replacement  

(a) 
On receipt of a direction issued under  clause 21.1(b)(i) , the Supplier must take 
whatever steps are necessary to rectify or replace the Equipment so that the 
Equipment is Acceptable in accordance with the steps, if any, set out in the 
direction given under  clause 21.1(b)(i) .  The provisions of  clauses 21.1 ,  21.2  
and  22  will reapply to the rectified or replaced Equipment.  

(b) 
Within 5 Business Days of receipt of a direction given under  clause 21.1(b)(ii) , 
the Supplier must provide a proposal for rectification or replacement which 
includes the following information: 

(i) 
whether the Supplier proposes to replace the Equipment or rectify the 
Equipment, so that the Equipment is Acceptable; 

(ii) 
if the Supplier proposes to rectify the Equipment, the nature of the work 
involved, how long it will take and where the work will take place; 

(iii) 
a proposed program for replacement or rectification (as the case may be); 
and 

(iv) 
any disruption which might be caused to the Purchaser. 

21.4 
Acceptance or rejection of proposal  

On receipt of the proposal given under  clause 21.3(b) , the Purchaser’s Representative 
may by written notice to the Supplier either: 

(a) 
accept the proposal (in which case the Supplier must promptly carry out the 
terms of the proposal); 

(b) 
advise that it elects to accept the Equipment and claim damages; or  

(c) 
reject the Equipment. 

21.5 
Replacement of Equipment 

If following the provision of a Notice of Non-Acceptance under  clause 21.1(b) , the 
Equipment is replaced by the Supplier: 

(a) 
risk in the Equipment to be replaced will pass back to the Supplier at the time of 
collection; 

(b) 
title to any replacement Equipment will pass to the Purchaser on Delivery to the 
Point of Delivery; 

(c) 
title to the Equipment that was replaced will pass back to the Supplier upon title 
to the replacement Equipment passing to the Purchaser; 

(d) 
risk in any replacement Equipment will pass to the Purchaser in accordance with 
clause 19 ; and 

(e) 
the Equipment will be deemed to:  

(i) 
have been Delivered, and the Time of Delivery of the Equipment will be 
deemed to be, the date on which the replacement Equipment is Delivered 
to the Point of Delivery; and 

(ii) 
be Acceptable at the Time of Acceptance. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 31 

21.6 
Rectification of Equipment 

If following the provision of a Notice of Non-Acceptance under  clause 21.1(b) , the 
Equipment is rectified by the Supplier: 

(a) 
title to the Equipment to be rectified will remain with the Purchaser at all times; 

(b) 
the Supplier will indemnify the Purchaser for any Loss in connection with the 
Supplier’s rectification work; and 

(c) 
the Equipment will be deemed to: 

(i) 
have been Delivered, and the Time of Delivery will be deemed to be, the 
date on which the rectification work is complete; and 

(ii) 
be Acceptable at the Time of Acceptance. 

21.7 
Rejection where no rectification or replacement 

If following the provision of a Notice of Non-Acceptance under  clause 21.1(b) , the 
rectification or replacement of the Equipment has not been effected within the time 
required in a notice given under  clause 21.1(b)(i)  or under a proposal accepted under 
clause 21.4(a) , then the Purchaser’s Representative may by notice in writing to the 
Supplier reject the Equipment. 

21.8 
Consequences of notice of rejection 

(a) 
On receipt of a notice of rejection given under  clause 21.1(b)(iv)  or  clause 21.7 , 
the Supplier must: 

(i) 
repay that part of the Contract Price it received for the rejected Equipment, 
and 

(ii) 
indemnify the Purchaser against any Loss suffered or incurred in relation 
to the breach of the Contract. 

(b) 
On receipt of the repayable and indemnified amounts referred to in 
clause 21.8(a) , the Purchaser must make the rejected Equipment available for 
collection by the Supplier.  At the time of collection, title to and risk in the 
collected Equipment will pass to the Supplier. 

21.9 
No impact on rights 

No action taken by the Purchaser or the Purchaser’s Representative under this clause 
will affect its right to claim damages at common law for breach of the Contract or to 
exercise any other right under this Contract. 

22 
Warranty period  

22.1 
Duration of Warranty Period 

(a) 
Subject to  clause 22.1(b) , the Warranty Period in respect of any of the 
Equipment will commence on the Time of Acceptance of all of the Equipment 
and continue for the period specified in  Item 24  of  schedule 1 .  

(b) 
There is to be a separate Warranty Period in respect of any Equipment rectified 
during the Warranty Period, commencing on the date the rectification work is 
completed, and continuing for the period specified in  Item 25  of  schedule 1 . 

22.2 
Direction to rectify 

At any time up to 10 Business Days after the expiry of the Warranty Period, the 
Purchaser’s Representative may direct the Supplier to rectify an omission or Defect. 
The Supplier must comply with any direction within the time stated in the direction, or if 
no time is stated, within a reasonable time.  


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 32 

22.3 
Failure to carry out rectification 

If the Supplier fails to comply with a direction given under  clause 22.2 , or where the 
rectification work is required urgently, the Purchaser may perform the work or have the 
work performed itself or by others. The cost to the Purchaser of having the work 
performed will be a debt due from the Supplier to the Purchaser. 

23 
Final payment schedule 

23.1 
Final payment claim 

Within 20 Business Days after the expiry of the Warranty Period, the Supplier must 
provide the Purchaser’s Representative with a 'Final Payment Claim' which includes 
details of all sums which the Supplier considers to be due from the Purchaser in 
respect of the Contract Price including any Variations and delay costs.  The Final 
Payment Claim must:  

(a) 
be in writing and in a form approved by the Purchaser's Representative; and 

(b) 
include a breakdown of the payment being claimed and substantiation of the 
claim as required by the Contract and the Purchaser’s Representative.    

23.2 
Issue of Final Payment Schedule 

(a) 
Within 10 Business Days after:  

(i) 
the Purchaser’s Representative receives the Supplier’s Final Payment 
Claim; or  

(ii) 
if no Final Payment Claim is received, the date for lodgement of the final 
payment claim, 

the Purchaser’s Representative must issue to the Supplier a 'Final Payment 
Schedule' which states: 

(A) 
the Contract Price as adjusted in accordance with the Contract; 

(B) 
if the amount payable to the Supplier is less than the amount 
claimed for payment by the Supplier: 

(1) 
indicate why the final scheduled amount is less or why no 
payment is proposed; and 

(2) 
if the reason is that the Purchaser is withholding payment, the 
reason why the Purchaser is withholding payment;  

(C) 
the resulting amount certified as then being due for payment to the 
Supplier by the Purchaser or to the Purchaser by the Supplier.  

(b) 
If the Final Payment Schedule certifies an amount due for payment to the 
Supplier by the Purchaser, the Supplier must give the Purchaser a valid tax 
invoice for the difference between the Contract Price and the amount determined 
by the Purchaser's Representative under  clause 23.2(a)(a)(ii)(C)  within two 
Business Days of receipt of the Final Payment Schedule.  

23.3 
Payment of sum certified 

(a) 
The sum certified as due under  clause 23.2  must be paid within 10 Business 
Days after the Supplier receives the Final Payment Schedule. The sum certified 
may be an amount which is payable to or from the Supplier. 

(b) 
The Purchaser may, prior to making any payment under  clause (a) , require the 
Supplier to execute a deed of release. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 33 

23.4 
Bar on claims 

Except for the amounts payable under  clause 23.3 , after the earlier of:  

(a) 
the expiry of 20 Business Days after expiry of the last Warranty Period; and  

(b) 
the receipt of the Final Payment Claim, 

the Supplier is barred from making any further claim against the Purchaser in respect 
of the Contract, or the supply or Delivery of any Equipment, or any other aspect of the 
Work under the Contract, whether in contract, tort or otherwise, which has not been 
made. 

23.5 
No approval 

The issue of a certificate under this Contract will not constitute approval or acceptance 
of any Equipment supplied or Work under the Contract or other matter nor will it 
prejudice any claim by the Purchaser against the Supplier. 

24 
Liability 

24.1 
Indemnity 

The Supplier indemnifies the Purchaser and its officers, employees, agents and 
contractors against: 

(a) 
all loss or damage to the Purchaser’s property; 

(b) 
any claim, demand, action, suit or proceeding that may be brought by any 
person against the Purchaser, the Purchaser’s Representative or any officer, 
employee, contractor or agent of the Purchaser; 

(c) 
any Loss suffered or incurred by the Purchaser in respect of personal injury to or 
death of any person; and 

(d) 
loss of or damage to any property (including any suit for an injunction in respect 
of any loss, apprehended loss or interference with enjoyment of any property), 

arising out of or as a consequence of:  

(e) 
the negligent act or omission of the Supplier, its employees, agents or 
subcontractors; or 

(f) 
the Supplier’s breach of its obligations under the Contract. 

24.2 
Exclusion of Consequential Loss 

(a) 
Subject to  clause 24.2(b) , a party will not be liable to the other party in respect 
of any Consequential Loss which may be suffered or incurred by the other party 
in connection with this Contract whether arising by way of indemnity, for breach 
of contract, in tort (including negligence), under statute, in equity or otherwise. 

(b) 
The exclusion of liability described in  clause 24.2(a)  does not extend to liability 
for Consequential Loss in respect of: 

(i) 
death or injury to persons or damage to real or personal property; 

(ii) 
liquidated damages payable by the Supplier or recovery of any Loss under 
clause 18 ;  

(iii) 
Performance Liquidated Damages payable by the Supplier or recovery of 
any Loss (if applicable) in accordance with  clause 2.3  and  Schedule 2 ; 

(iv) 
conduct which is so grossly careless that it amounts to a reckless 
disregard for the harmful, foreseeable and avoidable consequences which 
may result from it; 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 34 

(v) 
breach of any applicable laws by the Supplier related to the Work under 
the Contract; 

(vi) 
misuse of Confidential Information; 

(vii) 
the indemnities in  clause 10.4  and  clause 33.1 ; 

(viii) any liability of the Supplier to the extent the Supplier is indemnified for the 

liability under any policy of insurance required to be maintained, or 
effected and maintained by the Supplier under this Contract, or would 
have been indemnified but for the inclusion of this  clause 24.2  or the 
failure by the Supplier to comply with its insurance obligations under this 
Contract or the terms of any such policy of insurance or to diligently 
pursue a claim; 

(ix) 
liability arising from fraudulent or criminal acts or omissions of the liable 
party or any of its employees, agents or subcontractors; 

(x) 
liability for wilful misconduct in breach of Contract which has substantial 
harmful consequences for the other party (including an intentional unlawful 
abandonment of this Contract); 

(xi) 
liability for insurance deductibles borne by the Supplier; 

(xii) 
liability for any fine, penalty, sanction or compensation imposed by any 
law; or 

(xiii) liability which, by law, a party cannot contract out of or limit. 

25 
Insurance 

25.1 
Obligation to maintain insurance 

Without in any way limiting or affecting the Supplier’s other obligations under this 
agreement, the Supplier must (at its own expense) take out and maintain, with a 
reputable insurer, the following insurance policies:  

(a) 
from the date of this Contract until 7 years after the issue of the Final Payment 
Schedule: 

(i) 
public and products liability insurance with an overall limit of not less than 
the amount specified in in  Item 27  of  schedule 1  for any one occurrence 
and unlimited as to the number of claims and which covers the Purchaser 
for its liability arising out of the supply of the Equipment, injury, death to 
persons and/or damage to property caused by the Equipment during 
installation, commissioning or operation, the performance of the Services 
and/or the Supplier’s other obligations under this Contract; and 

(ii) 
if specified in  Item 26  of  schedule 1,  professional indemnity insurance 
with a limit of the amount specified in  Item 26  of  schedule 1  for each and 
every claim;  

(b) 
from the date of this Contract until the date specified in this clause 25.1(b) or if 
no date is stated, the issue of the Final Payment Schedule: 

(i) 
workers compensation insurance (including occupational disease where 
required by law) and employer’s indemnity insurance which complies with 
relevant laws covering all claims and liabilities under any statute and at 
common law with a sum insured of $50,000,000, in respect of any one 
event (where applicable) for the death of or injury to: 

(A) 
any person employed by the Supplier in connection with this 
agreement; and 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 35 

(B) 
any person who is a worker of the Supplier or in connection with this 
agreement and who may be deemed under statute to be a worker of 
the Purchaser. 

The Supplier’s workers’ compensation insurance must be endorsed so as 
to provide: 

(C) 
that the Purchaser is indemnified as principal against any liability 
which it may incur to such Supplier employees or workers, arising by 
virtue of any applicable workers’ compensation legislation and at 
common law, including any liability incurred as a deemed employer; 
and 

(D) 
for the Purchaser to be named as the ‘principal’ and for the 
insurance to include a waiver of subrogation from the insurer in 
favour of the Purchaser as ‘principal’; 

(ii) 
insurance of the Equipment for the full replacement value of the 
Equipment including materials ordered for inclusion into the Equipment 
(whether or not such items are owned by the Supplier, ownership has 
passed to the Purchaser or such items are complete or incomplete) 
against loss or damage including loss or damage in transit until the Time 
of Delivery; 

(iii) 
property damage liability insurance covering all motor vehicles owned, 
leased or hired by the Supplier used in connection with the performance of 
its obligations under this Contract, with a limit of $20,000,000 for each and 
every claim and which covers the Purchaser for its liability arising out of 
the performance of the Supplier’s obligations under this Contract;  

(iv) 
to the extent that a major component of or item of equipment or materials 
to be incorporated into, any Equipment, or any Equipment themselves, will 
be imported by the Supplier into Australia, a marine cargo insurance policy 
which covers the Supplier’s property to be provided in connection with this 
agreement, against the risks of loss, damage or destruction during 
transport to Australia; and  

(v) 
such other insurance as is required by law. 

25.2 
Certificates of currency 

(a) 
Within 2 Business Days after the date of this Contract and otherwise on the 
reasonable request of the Purchaser, the Supplier must give the Purchaser 
copies of any certificates from an insurer or insurers proving the currency of 
each insurance policy referred to in  clause 25.1 . 

(b) 
Despite anything to the contrary in this Contract, the Purchaser: 

(i) 
has the right to refuse the Supplier (and any of the Supplier’s personnel) 
entry to the Site; and 

(ii) 
is not obliged to pay, and may withhold payment of any amount owed by it 
to the Supplier, without any interest accruing under this Contract, 

unless and until the Supplier has complied with  clause 25.2(a) .  

25.3 
Terms of insurance 

(a) 
The Supplier must ensure that any insurance policies taken out pursuant to 
clause 25.1(b)(ii)  and  clause 25.1(b)(iv)  name the Purchaser as an interested 
party. 

(b) 
The Supplier must promptly notify the Purchaser in writing: 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 36 

(i) 
if any insurer proposes to cancel any of the policies; and 

(ii) 
of any occurrence in connection with any insurance policy procured 
pursuant to  clause 25.1  of this Contract, that may give rise to a claim 
against the insurances and which may adversely affect those insurances, 
and provide any further information reasonably requested by the 
Purchaser in connection with such occurrence or claim. 

(c) 
The Supplier must ensure that each of its subcontractors (if any) takes out and 
maintains insurance as required by this  clause 25  (including as to amounts of 
insurance and type of insurance) given the nature of work to be performed, or 
materials, equipment or goods to be provided, by the relevant subcontractor, as 
if they were the Supplier. 

26 
Confidentiality and media releases 

26.1 
No disclosure 

Subject to  clause 26.2  and except to the extent necessary to carry out the Work under 
the Contract, the Supplier must not, and must ensure that its employees do not, 
without the prior written approval of the Purchaser, at any time (including after the 
termination or expiry of this Contract): 

(a) 
disclose or give to any person any Confidential Information; or 

(b) 
use or reproduce, or permit or allow any other person to use or reproduce the 
Documentation or Confidential Information. 

26.2 
Exclusions 

Clause 26.1  does not apply to the extent that the Confidential Information is:  

(a) 
in the public domain at the time that the Confidential Information is disclosed or 
given; or 

(b) 
required by law to be disclosed or given. 

26.3 
No press release 

Without limiting the generality of  clause 26.1 , the Supplier must not advertise or issue 
any information, publication, document or article for publication or media release 
concerning the Work under the Contract or the Purchaser’s business and activities 
without the prior written approval of the Purchaser. 

26.4 
Referral of media enquiries 

The Supplier must refer to the Purchaser any enquiries from the media concerning the 
Work under the Contract or the Purchaser’s business and activities. 

26.5 
Return of documents 

Within 10 Business Days of the issue of the Final Payment Schedule or the earlier 
termination of this Contract, the Supplier must return to the Purchaser all documents or 
records (including all Confidential Information) the Purchaser has supplied to the 
Supplier in respect of the Work under the Contract and copies of any documents or 
records of the Purchaser held by the Supplier. The Supplier may retain one copy of the 
documents for the purpose only of keeping a record. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 37 

27 
Default and insolvency 

27.1 
Termination for default by the Supplier 

The Purchaser may immediately upon written notice terminate this Contract in whole or 
in part for the Supplier’s default, if: 

(a) 
the Supplier commits a Serious Breach; or 

(b) 
the Supplier does not carry out any obligation under this Contract (not being a 
Serious Breach) and, in the case of a default which is capable of remedy, does 
not remedy that default within 5 Business Days after the Purchaser serves 
written notice on the Supplier requiring the default to be remedied, or in the case 
of a default which is not capable of remedy, does not comply with the directions 
of the Purchaser specified in the Purchaser’s written notice within 5 Business 
Days of service of that written notice. 

27.2 
Rights of the Purchaser 

If the Purchaser terminates the Contract under  clause 27.1 , the respective rights and 
liabilities of the parties will be the same as they would be at common law if the Supplier 
had wrongfully repudiated the Contract and the Purchaser elected to treat the Contract 
as at an end and recover damages.  

27.3 
Supplier’s right to terminate 

The Supplier may terminate this Contract if: 

(a) 
the Purchaser does not pay the Supplier any undisputed money due and owing 
to it under this Contract; and  

(b) 
the Purchaser does not pay that money within a further period of 20 Business 
Days after the Supplier serves written notice on the Purchaser requiring 
payment. 

28 
Termination for convenience 

28.1 
Termination for convenience 

(a) 
Without prejudice to any of the Purchaser's other rights or entitlements or 
powers under this Contract, the Purchaser may at any time for its sole 
convenience, and for any reason, by written notice to the Supplier terminate this 
Contract effective from the time stated in the notice or if no such time is stated, 
at the time the notice is given to the Supplier. 

(b) 
If the Contract is terminated under this clause the Purchaser may procure 
equipment similar to the Equipment from any other person. 

29 
Obligations on and consequences of termination 

29.1 
Supplier’s obligations 

If this Contract is terminated or the Work under the Contract is taken out of the hands 
of the Supplier, the Supplier must immediately: 

(a) 
cease the performance of the Work under the Contract; 

(b) 
comply with any direction by the Purchaser, including any direction to assign to 
the Purchaser all rights and benefits under the contracts with third parties; 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 38 

(c) 
co-operate with the Purchaser and any other persons nominated by the 
Purchaser to enable the Purchaser, or the persons nominated by the Purchaser, 
to complete the Work under the Contract; and 

(d) 
at its own cost, deliver to the Purchaser: 

(i) 
all documentation licensed to the Supplier pursuant to this Contract (for 
the purpose of keeping a record of the Work under the Contract provided 
under this Contract), in the number and format specified in  Item 28  of  
schedule 1 ; and 

(ii) 
if directed to do so by the Purchaser, copies of all records and materials in 
its possession or power relating to the Project, boxed and indexed as 
reasonably directed by the Purchaser. 

(e) 
The Purchaser will not be obliged to make any payment to the Supplier, whether 
under this Contract or otherwise, until the Supplier has complied with this clause. 

29.2 
Payment upon termination for convenience or termination by Supplier 

If the Contract is terminated under  clauses 27.3  or  28.1 :  

(a) 
the Purchaser’s Representative will assess the value of the work performed 
under the Contract to the date of termination, evidencing the amount which 
would have been payable had the Contract not been terminated and had the 
Supplier been entitled to and made a payment claim on the date of termination; 

(b) 
the Purchaser must pay the Supplier the sum of: 

(i) 
the amount determined under  clause 29.2(a)  less any amounts that have 
been previously paid to the Supplier under  clause 15 ; plus 

(ii) 
the cost of materials and equipment reasonably ordered by the Supplier 
solely for the Work under the Contract and which the Supplier is liable to 
accept, but only if they will become the Purchaser’s property upon 
payment; less 

(iii) 
any amounts payable by the Supplier to the Purchaser under the Contract 
or in connection with the Work under the Contract, as reasonably 
determined by the Purchaser’s Representative; 

(c) 
subject to  clause 5.6 , the Purchaser must promptly release and return all 
remaining security provided by the Supplier; 

(d) 
if the amount calculated in accordance with  clause 29.2(b)  yields a negative 
number, the Supplier must pay that amount within 5 Business Days of 
notification by the Purchaser’s Representative and the Purchaser may recover 
such amount as a debt due from the Supplier. 

29.3 
Consequences of termination 

The parties acknowledge that:  

(a) 
the sums payable under  clauses 27  and  29  will be in full and final satisfaction of 
all obligations of the Purchaser to the Supplier in relation to this Contract, the 
rights exercised by the Purchaser or the Supplier under  clauses 27, 28  and  29 , 
and the performance of Work under the Contract by the Supplier; and 

(b) 
all rights vested in the Purchaser by  clauses 27, 28  and  29  are without prejudice 
to any other rights and remedies of the Purchaser. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 39 

30 
Claims 

(a) 
The Supplier must give the Purchaser the notices required by  clause 30(a)  if it 
wishes to make a claim in respect of any matter (including a breach of the 
Contract by the Purchaser) under, arising out of, or in connection with the supply 
or Delivery of the Equipment or any other aspect of the Work under the Contract 
or the Contract. 

(b) 
This  clause 30  does not apply to claims for: 

(i) 
payment under clause 15;  

(ii) 
Variations under clause 11; or 

(iii) 
an extension of time or delay costs under clause 17; 

in respect of which the Supplier must give the notices in the form and within the 
times prescribed by those clauses. 

(c) 
The Supplier must: 

(i) 
within 20 Business Days of the date upon which the Supplier became 
aware or could reasonably have become aware that there would be an 
adverse impact on the Supplier as a consequence of the events or 
circumstances on which the claim is based, provide the Purchaser’s 
Representative with written notice of its intention to lodge a claim, giving 
details of the nature of the claim; and 

(ii) 
within 20 Business Days of the completion of the occurrence of the events 
or circumstances on which the claim is based, provide the Purchaser’s 
Representative with a notice which contains detailed particulars of the 
claim sufficient to identify the matter at issue and to enable the 
Purchaser’s Representative to understand the precise nature and content 
of the claim which includes: 

(A) 
each item of claim and the basis for it; 

(B) 
the clauses of this Contract and the documents upon which each 
item of claim is based; 

(C) 
if a direction of the Purchaser’s Representative or any other person 
is relied upon, the date of the direction, who gave it, whether it was 
given orally or in writing, and the terms of the direction; 

(D) 
if an act or omission of the Purchaser, the Purchaser’s 
Representative or any employee or agent of the Purchaser is relied 
upon, the nature of the act or omission, the date of the act or 
omission, whether it was oral or in writing, and the particulars of the 
act or omission; 

(E) 
 the amounts (including particulars of those amounts) claimed in 
respect of each item or claim or if no amount is claimed, a statement 
to that effect; and 

(F) 
 any other decision sought in respect of the dispute. 

(d) 
Notices must be given in accordance with this  clause 30  whether or not the 
event or circumstance upon which the claim is based is continuing and whether 
or not the Loss has crystallised or can be fully particularised.  The details omitted 
must be provided within 5 Business Days of the day that they do crystallise or 
can be fully particularised. 

(e) 
Any claim which is not notified by the Supplier in accordance with this  clause 30  
is barred.      


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 40 

31 
Disputes 

31.1 
Notice of Dispute  

(a) 
If a dispute arises in connection with this Contract or the Work under the 
Contract ( Dispute ), then either party must deliver by hand or send by certified 
mail to the other party a notice of the Dispute in writing identifying and providing 
details of the Dispute. 

(b) 
Despite the existence of a Dispute, each party must continue to perform its 
obligations under the Contract.  The existence of a Dispute will not prejudice 
either party's rights to terminate the Contract for any reason. 

31.2 
Conference 

Within 10 Business Days of service of a notice of Dispute, the Purchaser's 
Representative and a senior representative of the Supplier must meet and, in good 
faith, attempt to resolve the Dispute.  If the Dispute is not resolved within 10 Business 
Days of the last date for the meeting of delegates under this clause (or such longer 
period as may be agreed by the parties in writing), the matter will be and is hereby 
referred to arbitration. 

31.3 
Arbitration 

(a) 
The seat of the arbitration will be Perth, Western Australia, and the arbitration is 
to take place in Perth, Western Australia.  The arbitration will be conducted in 
accordance with the rules of the Australian Centre for International Commercial 
Arbitration (as amended from time to time) (the  ACICA Rules ).  The arbitration 
shall be resolved by one arbitrator who shall be appointed in accordance with 
article 12 of the ACICA Rules. 

(b) 
To the extent permitted by law, the parties agree that: 

(i) 
the powers conferred and restrictions imposed on a court by Part 1F of the 
Civil Liability Act 2002  (WA) are not conferred or imposed on the 
arbitrators appointed under this  clause 31.3 ; and 

(ii) 
any such arbitrators will have no power to make an order or award in 
respect of a Dispute by applying or considering the provisions of Part 1F of 
the  Civil Liability Act   2002  (WA) (or any equivalent statutory provisions in 
any other state or territory) which might, in the absence of this  clause 
31.3 , have applied to any Dispute referred to arbitration and the provisions 
of Part 1F of the  Civil Liability Act 2002  (WA) are excluded from applying 
to the Contract or to the Work under the Contract. 

31.4 
Litigation 

The parties agree that: 

(a) 
all Disputes must be resolved in accordance with this  clause 31 ; and 

(b) 
nothing in this  clause 31  shall prejudice the right of a party to seek urgent 
injunctive or urgent declaratory relief from a court. 

32 
Notices 

32.1 
General 

(a) 
Unless otherwise specifically provided, any notice, consent, approval or other 
communication under the Contract: 

(i) 
must be in writing; 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 41 

(ii) 
where  item 30  of  schedule 1  states that notices must be given by an 
electronic management system, the notice must be given by the electronic 
management system as set out in  schedule 1 ; 

(iii) 
may be (unless  item 30  of  schedule 1  states otherwise) delivered by 
hand or by mail to the address, or sent to the email address, stated in  Item 
29  of  schedule 1,  or such other postal address, or email address as a 
party may notify to the other from time to time in writing; and 

(iv) 
must be marked with the title stating that it is a notice under this Contract. 

(b) 
A notice is given on the day that: 

(i) 
if delivered by the electronic management system set out in  item 30  of 
schedule 1,  at the time that the electronic management system generates 
a confirmation of the date and time sent but if delivery or receipt is on a 
day which is not a Business Day or is after 5:00pm at the place of delivery 
or receipt, it is taken as given at 9:00am on the next Business Day; 

(ii) 
subject to  clause 32.1(c) , if delivered by hand or by mail to the addressee, 
on the day of delivery if it is a Business Day, otherwise on the next 
Business Day; or  

(iii) 
subject to  clause 32.1(c) , if sent by electronic mail, when the 
communication enters the information system on which the mailbox of the 
recipient’s email address resides. A notice is taken to have entered the 
information system on which the mailbox of the recipient’s email address 
resides at the time it was sent if the sender does not receive notification 
within 24 hours of sending the communication that the communication has 
not been delivered. If a notice is taken to have entered the information 
system on which the mailbox of the recipient’s email address resides on a 
day which is not a Business Day, it is taken as delivered on the next 
Business Day. 

(c) 
If a notice delivered by hand or sent by electronic mail is delivered or sent after 
5:00pm on a day, the notice will be deemed to have been received on the next 
Business Day. 

(d) 
A party must notify the other party and the Purchaser’s Representative of any 
change to its details stated in  Item 29  of  schedule 1 . 

(e) 
The Purchaser’s Representative must notify the parties of any change to its 
details stated in  Item 29  of  schedule 1 . 

32.2 
Email Notices 

(a) 
Despite any other provision of the Contract but subject to  clause   32.1(a)(ii)  and 
this  clause 32.2 , the Purchaser and the Supplier agree that notices under the 
Contract may be sent by electronic mail. 

(b) 
The party sending the notice must keep a contemporaneous printed record of 
any notice sent by it by electronic mail. 

(c) 
Each party must monitor the information systems on which the mailboxes for 
their respective email addresses reside on a frequent and regular basis but no 
less often than once a Business Day. 

(d) 
Each party must immediately notify the other if they discontinue the use of, or 
change, their respective email addresses, or if they are unable to access their 
email addresses for a period longer than one day. 

(e) 
Each party must ensure that it is able to receive notices to its email address, 
including by ensuring that sufficient storage capacity is available at all times. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 42 

(f) 
For the avoidance of doubt, a notice sent by electronic means under the 
Contract will be taken to be a notice in writing signed by the person identified as 
the sender of the electronic mail. 

33 
Taxes and customs duty 

33.1 
Taxes 

(a) 
Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Contract, the Supplier must pay all 
taxes, charges and other payments including payroll tax, levies, duties (including 
customs duty) and assessments of every nature due in connection with the Work 
under the Contract and the performance of the Supplier’s other obligations under 
the Contract. The Supplier must indemnify the Purchaser from any liability for 
those taxes, charges and other payments which has arisen or may arise.   

(b) 
The Supplier warrants that it is not a foreign resident within the meaning of the 
Taxation Administration Act 1953  (Cth). 

(c) 
If the Purchaser is required in its opinion to withhold any amount in respect of tax 
from a payment to be made to the Supplier under this Contract, it is entitled to do 
so and such withholding and payment to the relevant taxing authority will be a 
good discharge of its obligation to pay the relevant amount to the Supplier. 

(d) 
If the Purchaser pays an amount to the Supplier without withholding an amount 
in respect of tax, the Supplier must indemnify the Purchaser for any Loss 
suffered by the Purchaser as a result of the Purchaser failing to withhold the 
amount in respect of tax, including as a result of the warranty provided in  clause 
33.1(b)  being untrue at any time during the term of this Contract. 

33.2 
Customs clearance and Australian customs duty 

(a) 
Where the Equipment, materials, plant or other items are to be imported into 
Australia by the Supplier:  

(i) 
subject to  clause 33.2(b) , the party stated in  Item 31  of  schedule 1  will 
pay any Australian customs duty that may be payable on the importation 
of those items; and 

(ii) 
the Supplier must do all things necessary to ensure that it obtains any 
available exemptions from or reductions in any Australian customs duty 
(including under the Australian Tariff Concession Orders and any 
applicable Free Trade Agreements), and if such exemptions or reductions 
are obtained, then to the extent (if any) that the amount of the exemption 
or reduction is incorporated into the Contract Price:  

(A) 
the Supplier must if the Purchaser has already paid or reimbursed 
the Supplier the amount of the exemption or reduction, repay that 
amount to the Purchaser; and 

(B) 
 if the Purchaser has not yet paid the Supplier the amount of the 
exemption or reduction, that amount is not payable to the Supplier 
and that amount will be deducted from the Contract Price. 

(b) 
The Supplier must bear and pay for any Australian customs duty that may be 
payable in connection with the importation into Australia of:  

(i) 
any plant or equipment used to manufacture or transport the Equipment; 
and  

(ii) 
the Equipment, materials, plant, or other items required to repair, replace 
or rectify any loss, damage or Defect that the Supplier is required to repair, 
replace or rectify at its cost.  


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 43 

(c) 
Regardless of whether the Purchaser or the Supplier pays for Australian 
customs duty, the Supplier is responsible for handling and clearing through 
customs in all applicable jurisdictions (including Australia), all overseas sourced 
Equipment, materials, plant, and other items that are to be supplied by the 
Supplier under this Contract unless the Contract expressly provides otherwise. 

34 
GST 

34.1 
Construction 

In this  clause 34 : 

(a) 
unless there is a contrary indication, words and expressions which are not 
defined in this document but which have a defined meaning in the GST Law 
have the same meaning as in the GST Law;  

(b) 
GST Law  has the same meaning given to that expression in the  A New Tax 
System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999  (Cth) or, if that Act does not exist for 
any reason, means any Act imposing or relating to the imposition or 
administration of a goods and services tax in Australia and any regulation made 
under that Act; and 

(c) 
references to GST payable and input tax credit entitlements include: 

(i) 
notional GST payable by, and notional input tax credit entitlements of the 
Commonwealth, a State or a Territory (including a government, 
government body, authority, agency or instrumentality of the 
Commonwealth, a State or a Territory); and 

(ii) 
GST payable by, and the input tax credit entitlements of, the 
representative member of a GST group of which the entity is a member. 

34.2 
Consideration GST exclusive 

Unless otherwise expressly stated, all consideration, whether monetary or non-
monetary, payable or to be provided under or in connection with this document is 
exclusive of GST ( GST-exclusive consideration ). 

34.3 
Payment of GST 

If GST is payable on any supply made by: 

(a) 
a party; or  

(b) 
an entity that is taken under the GST Law to make the supply by reason of the 
capacity in which a party acts, 

( Supplier ) under or in connection with this document, the recipient of the supply, or the 
party providing the consideration for the supply, must pay to the Supplier an amount 
equal to the GST payable on the supply. 

34.4 
Timing of GST payment 

The amount referred to in  clause 34.3  must be paid in addition to and at the same 
time and in the same manner (without any set-off or deduction) that the GST-exclusive 
consideration for the supply is payable or to be provided. 

34.5 
Tax invoice 

The Supplier must deliver a tax invoice or an adjustment note to the recipient of a 
taxable supply before the Supplier is entitled to payment of an amount under  clause 
34.3 . 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 44 

34.6 
Adjustment event 

If an adjustment event arises in respect of a supply made by a Supplier under or in 
connection with this document, any amount that is payable under  clause 34.3  will be 
calculated or recalculated to reflect the adjustment event and a payment will be made 
by the recipient to the Supplier or by the Supplier to the recipient as the case requires. 

34.7 
Reimbursements 

(a) 
Where a party is required under or in connection with this document to pay for, 
reimburse or contribute to any expense, loss, liability or outgoing suffered or 
incurred by another party or indemnify another party in relation to such an 
expense, loss, liability or outgoing ( Reimbursable Expense ), the amount 
required to be paid, reimbursed or contributed by the first party will be reduced 
by the amount of any input tax credits to which the other party is entitled in 
respect of the Reimbursable Expense. 

(b) 
This  clause 34.7  does not limit the application of  clause 34.3 , if appropriate, to 
the Reimbursable Expense as reduced in accordance with  clause 34.7(a) . 

34.8 
Calculations based on other amounts 

If an amount of consideration payable or to be provided under or in connection with 
this document is to be calculated by reference to: 

(a) 
any expense, loss, liability or outgoing suffered or incurred by another person 
( Cost ), that reference will be to the amount of that Cost excluding the amount of 
any input tax credit entitlement of that person relating to the Cost suffered or 
incurred; and 

(b) 
any price, value, sales, proceeds, revenue or similar amount ( Revenue ), that 
reference will be to that Revenue determined by deducting from it an amount 
equal to the GST payable on the supply for which it is consideration. 

34.9 
No merger 

This  clause 34  does not merge on the completion, rescission or other termination of 
this document or on the transfer of any property supplied under this document. 

35 
Personal Property Securities Act 

(a) 
Terms used in this  clause 35  which are defined in the PPS Act have the 
meanings given to those terms in that Act unless the context indicates otherwise 
or the term is defined in this Contract. 

(b) 
Unless expressly permitted by this Contract, a party must not, without the prior 
written consent of the other party: 

(i) 
create any Security Interest over any of the other party’s personal property 
which has priority over Security Interests granted in favour of the other 
party; or 

(ii) 
sell or dispose of the other party’s personal property. 

(c) 
To secure all of its obligations under this Contract, the Supplier grants to the 
Purchaser a Security Interest in the Equipment. 

(d) 
The Security Interest created under clause 35(c): 

(i) 
will continue in the Equipment until title passes to the Purchaser pursuant 
to this Contract; and 

(ii) 
attaches to the proceeds of the Equipment.  


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 45 

(e) 
The Supplier acknowledges that the Purchaser is entitled to register a financing 
statement on the personal property securities register to perfect the Purchaser’s 
Security Interest in the Equipment. 

(f) 
The Supplier must do all things required by the Purchaser to: 

(i) 
ensure that the Purchaser’s Security Interest is perfected, enforceable and 
has the highest priority possible under the PPS Act;  

(ii) 
ensure that the Purchaser has all information necessary to register a 
financing statement on the personal property securities register to perfect 
its Security Interest; and 

(iii) 
enable the Purchaser to exercise its rights in connection with the Security 
Interest. 

(g) 
The Supplier must not: 

(i) 
grant, allow to exist or agree to any Security Interest in the Equipment, 
other than the Purchaser’s Security Interest created under this Contract; or 

(ii) 
sell, lease or otherwise deal with the Equipment except in accordance with 
this Contract.   

(h) 
The Purchaser may enforce its Security Interest in the Equipment and any 
proceeds immediately upon the occurrence of a termination event described in 
clause 27.1 and the Supplier grants to the Purchaser a license to enter onto any 
premises of the Supplier for the purpose of enforcing the Security Interest.   

(i) 
The Supplier waives its right to receive any notice under the PPS Act (including 
the right to receive a verification statement in accordance with section 157 of the 
PPSA) unless the notice is required by the PPS Act and the right to receive it 
cannot be waived by the Supplier, or otherwise excluded. 

(j) 
If title to the Equipment passes to the Purchaser prior to the Equipment being 
under the care, custody and control of the Purchaser, the Supplier grants to the 
Purchaser a licence to enter onto any premises of the Supplier for the purposes 
of taking possession of those Equipment. 

36 
Building and Construction Industry (Security of Payment) 
Act 2021 WA 

(a) 
The provisions of the Contract do not prevent a party from seeking adjudication 
under the  Building and Construction Industry (Security of Payment) Act  2021 
(WA) ( Security of Payment Act ) ) in respect of a payment dispute, as that term 
is defined in the Security of Payment Act.   

(b) 
The adjudicator for any payment dispute under the Security of Payment Act will 
be appointed by the Resolution Institute, Australia or their successors.  Nothing 
in this clause will prevent a party from contending that the Contract is not a 
construction contract as that term is defined in the Security of Payment Act.  

(c) 
In this  clause 36 , where this Contract comes into effect before 1 August 2022, a 
reference to the Security of Payment Act shall be construed as a reference to 
the  Construction Contracts Act  2004 (WA). 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 46 

37 
Financing Assistance 

37.1 
Financing Assistance 

The Supplier must provide documents and other technical assistance as the Purchaser 
may reasonably request in connection with the financing of the Project. During the 
performance of the Work under the Contract, the Supplier must make available to the 
Purchaser information relating to the status of the Equipment, the status of any 
required licences and permits and other Authority approvals or other matters as the 
Purchaser may request. 

37.2 
Lenders Direct Deed 

If requested by the Purchaser, the Supplier agrees to (and will procure any guarantor 
that has entered into a guarantee in accordance with  clause 5.1(b))  enter into a direct 
deed with the Purchaser’s Lenders and the Purchaser on terms which are consistent 
with accepted market practice in Australia for project financing of a resources based 
project (including in relation to performance, security, notice, termination, step-in, 
variations and assignment).   

37.3 
Interface with the Lenders 

(a) 
Without limiting the Supplier’s obligations in clause (b) below, the Purchaser 
must co-ordinate and is responsible for all interfaces with the Lenders and the 
Lenders’ Representative.  

(b) 
The Supplier must, when reasonably requested to do so by the Purchaser, co-
operate with any Lenders and the Lenders’ Representative. The Supplier 
acknowledges and agrees that: 

(i) 
such co-operation will not detract from or otherwise affect the Supplier’s 
warranties obligations or liabilities under or in connection with this 
Contract; and 

(ii) 
it will not be entitled to claim any additional cost or expense or any 
adjustment to the Contract Price or to claim any extension to the Time for 
Delivery or to make any claim under this Contract, any applicable law, in 
equity or otherwise in relation to such co-operation. 

37.4 
Enforcement of Security Interests 

Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Contract, the Supplier:  

(a) 
consents to the assignment or novation by the Lenders of this Contract to a third 
party following enforcement of any Security Interests and agrees to enter into a 
document to effect such assignment or novation, subject to the third party 
entering into a deed of covenant in favour of the Supplier acknowledging their 
rights under this Contract and undertaking to observe and perform all the 
obligations of the Purchaser or any other person giving the assignment or the 
novation of this Contract; 

(b) 
agrees that enforcement of any Security Interests held by the Lenders will not of 
itself constitute a breach of this Contract or the Purchaser’s obligations under 
this Contract or give rise to a right of the Supplier to terminate this Contract. 

38 
General 

38.1 
Novation 

(a) 
The Supplier consents to the novation of this Contract by the Purchaser to a 
contractor of the Purchaser who is carrying out works in relation to the Project 
for which the Equipment is required. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 47 

(b) 
If directed by the Purchaser, the Supplier must execute a deed of novation in the 
form set out in  schedule 11  between the Purchaser, the Supplier and the 
relevant contractor of the Purchaser. 

(c) 
The Supplier hereby appoints the Purchaser as the Supplier’s attorney to 
execute the deed of novation as attorney for the Supplier provided that the 
Purchaser may only execute the deed of novation as attorney for the Supplier if 
the Supplier fails to execute the deed of novation in the form set out in  schedule 
11  within 10 Business Days of being directed to do so by the Purchaser.   

(d) 
If the Purchaser executes the deed of novation as attorney for the Supplier in 
accordance with  clause 38.1(c) , the Supplier will be bound by the deed of 
novation from the date on which the Purchaser notifies the Supplier in writing of 
the novation.  

(e) 
The Supplier is not entitled to any compensation for entering into a deed of 
novation pursuant to this  clause 38.1 . 

38.2 
Duty 

(a) 
As between the parties, the Supplier is liable for, must pay, and indemnify the 
other the Purchaser for all stamp duty, duty, or like duties or imposts ( Duty ) 
(including any fine, interest or penalty) payable or assessed on or in connection 
with: 

(i) 
this document; 

(ii) 
any document executed under or required by or contemplated by this 
document; and 

(iii) 
any transaction evidenced, effected or contemplated by a document 
referred to in  clause 38.2(a)(i)  or  clause 38.2(a)(ii) . 

(b) 
If a party other than the Supplier pays any Duty referred to in  clause 38.2(a)  
(including any fine, interest or penalty), in whole or in part, the Supplier   must 
reimburse the paying party without set-off or deduction immediately on demand. 

38.3 
Legal Costs 

Except as expressly stated otherwise in this Contract, each party must pay its own 
legal and other costs and expenses of negotiating, preparing, executing and 
performing its obligations under this Contract. 

38.4 
Assignment 

(a) 
The Supplier must not assign or deal with any right under this document without 
the prior written consent of the Purchaser. 

(b) 
The Purchaser may assign all or any part of its rights or transfer its obligations 
under this document without the Supplier’s prior written consent.  

(c) 
Any purported dealing in breach of this clause is of no effect. 

38.5 
Amendment 

The Contract may only be varied or replaced by a document duly executed by the 
parties. 

38.6 
Waiver and exercise of rights 

(a) 
A single or partial exercise or waiver by a party of a right relating to this Contract 
does not prevent any other exercise of that right or the exercise of any other 
right. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 48 

(b) 
A party is not liable for any Loss of any other party caused or contributed to by 
the waiver, exercise, attempted exercise, failure to exercise or delay in the 
exercise of a right. 

38.7 
Rights cumulative 

Except as expressly stated otherwise in this Contract, the rights of a party under this 
Contract are cumulative and are in addition to any other rights of that party. 

38.8 
Consents 

Except as expressly stated otherwise in this Contract, a party may conditionally or 
unconditionally give or withhold any consent to be given under this Contract and is not 
obliged to give its reasons for doing so. 

38.9 
Further steps 

Each party must promptly do whatever any other party reasonably requires of it to give 
effect to this Contract and to perform its obligations under it. 

38.10 Governing law and jurisdiction 

(a) 
The Contract is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the laws 
applicable in Western Australia. 

(b) 
Each party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non-exclusive 
jurisdiction of the courts exercising jurisdiction in Western Australia and any 
courts which have jurisdiction to hear appeals from any of those courts and 
waives any right to object to any proceedings being brought in those courts. 

38.11 Liability 

An obligation of two or more persons binds them separately and together. 

38.12 Counterparts 

The Contract may consist of a number of counterparts and, if so, the counterparts 
taken together constitute one document. 

38.13 Relationship of parties 

The Contract is not intended to create a partnership, joint venture or agency 
relationship between the parties. 

38.14 Currency 

All amounts payable under the Contract are to be paid in Australian dollars unless the 
Contract expressly provides otherwise. 

38.15 Construction 

Unless expressed to the contrary, in this Contract: 

(a) 
words in the singular include the plural and vice versa; 

(b) 
any gender includes the other genders; 

(c) 
if a word or phrase is defined its other grammatical forms have corresponding 
meanings; 

(d) 
‘includes’ or similar words mean includes without limitation; 

(e) 
no rule of construction will apply to a clause to the disadvantage of a party 
merely because that party put forward the clause or would otherwise benefit 
from it;  

(f) 
derivatives of defined terms have an analogous meaning; and 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 49 

(g) 
a reference to: 

(i) 
a person includes a partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association, 
corporation and a government or statutory body or Authority; 

(ii) 
a person includes the person’s legal personal representatives, successors, 
assigns and persons substituted by novation; 

(iii) 
any legislation includes subordinate legislation under it and includes that 
legislation and subordinate legislation as modified or replaced;   

(iv) 
an obligation includes a warranty or representation and a reference to a 
failure to comply with an obligation includes a breach of warranty or 
representation; and 

(v) 
a right includes a benefit, remedy, discretion or power; 

(vi) 
‘$’ or ‘dollars’ is a reference to Australian currency; 

(h) 
if the date on or by which any act must be done under this Contract is not a 
Business Day, the act must be done on or by the next Business Day;  

(i) 
where time is to be calculated by reference to a day or event, that day or the day 
of the event is excluded; and 

(i) 
headings do not affect the interpretation of this Contract. 

38.16 Deed 

This document is a deed.  Factors which might suggest otherwise are to be 
disregarded. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 50 

 
Schedule 1 

Contract Details 

Item 
No 

Clause No 
Information Sought 
Details 

1 
1 
Commencement 
Date 

[Insert Commencement Date] 

2 
1 
Contract 
(a) 
General Conditions 

(b) 
schedule 1   

(c) 
[Insert schedules in order that you 
would like them to take priority] 

(d) 
Any other  schedules  not set out 
above, being schedules [insert] 

(e) 
[any documents other than the 
General Conditions and Schedules 
which are to form part of the 
Contract.  Note: these should not 
include Information Documents, or 
the Supplier’s tender submission] 

[Insert order of priority of Contract 
documents:] 

3 
1 
Contract Price  
Lump Sum : 
$[insert]  

Rates: 
See  schedule 6 
 
[ Note:  delete as applicable.  Both can be 
retained if desired] 

 

4 
1 
Equipment 
[Insert detailed description of Equipment] 

5 
1 
Legal Opinion 
[Insert details of person to whom Legal 
Opinion should be addressed in cases 
where a foreign entity is providing the Deed 
of Guarantee and Indemnity] 

6 
1 
Longstop Date 
[ Note:   The Longstop Date only applies if 
Schedule 2 applies] 

[Insert date by which the Purchaser can 
terminate the Contract if the Supplier fails 
to achieve the Minimum Performance 
Criteria] 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 51 

Item 
No 

Clause No 
Information Sought 
Details 

7 
1 
Performance 
Liquidated Damages 

[Insert rate per unit measure for each 
Performance Criteria] 

8 
1 
Point of Delivery 
[Insert Point of Delivery]  

9 
1 
Purchaser’s 
Representative 

Name 
[Purchaser’s 
Representative:  Name] 

Delivery 
Address 

[Delivery address] 

 

Postal 
address: 

[Purchaser's 
Representative's PO box 
details/Same as delivery 
address] 

 

10 
1 
Site 
[insert mine site] 

11 
1 
Supplier’s 
Representative 

Name 
[Supplier’s Representative:  
Name] 

Delivery 
Address 

[Delivery address] 

 

Postal 
address 

[Supplier's Representative's 
PO box details/Same as 
delivery address] 

 

12 
1 
Time for Delivery 
[Time for Delivery] 

13 
2.3 
Performance Criteria   Clause 2.3 and  schedule 2  [apply / do not 

apply] 

14 
5 
Unconditional 
undertaking 

From the 
Commencement Date 
until the date referred 
to in  clause 5.3 

[Two (2) 
unconditional 
undertakings, 
each for 5% of the 
Contract Price]  

15 
From the date referred 
to in  clause 5.3  until 
the date referred to in 
clause 5.4 

[5% of the 
Contract Price] 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 52 

Item 
No 

Clause No 
Information Sought 
Details 

16 
5.1(b) 
Deed of guarantee 
and indemnity 

[Drafting Note: a parent company 
guarantee is expected] 

A Deed of Guarantee and Indemnity [is/is 
not] required [Delete as inapplicable] 

Entity from which Deed of Guarantee and 
Indemnity is required: [insert or delete if not 
applicable] 

17 
13.1 
Hold Points 
[Insert notice period]  

18 
15.3 
Timing for payment 
claims 

Upon achievement of the following 
milestones: 

[insert] 

19 
15.5(b) 
Milestone payments 
[insert] 

20 
16(d) 
17.11 

Maximum rate for 
delay costs 

[Maximum rate for delay costs Supplier 
may be entitled to] 

21 
17.2 
Delivery hours 
[Delivery hours] 

22 
17.2 
Party responsible for 
unloading the 
Equipment, or, 
where the Point of 
Delivery is the 
Supplier’s premises, 
loading of the 
Equipment 

[insert] 

23 
18.1 
Liquidated damages 
(Delivery) 

$[Daily rate for liquidated damages]/day 

24 
22.1(a) 
Warranty Period 
[insert period] 

25 
22.1(b) 
Further Warranty 
Period 

[insert period] 

26 
25.1(a)(ii) 
Professional 
indemnity insurance 
required 

Professional indemnity insurance [is/is not] 
required. 

 
Amount 
[Professional indemnity insurance: Value] 

 
 
 

27 
25.1(a)(i) 
Amount of combined 
public and products 
liability Insurance  

$[Amount] 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 53 

Item 
No 

Clause No 
Information Sought 
Details 

28 
29.1(d) 
Documentation upon 
termination 

 

Number of copies 
Format required 

[insert] 
[insert] 

[insert] 
[insert] 

29 
32 
Purchaser 
Name 
[Purchaser:  Name] 

Delivery 
Address 

[Purchaser:  Delivery 
address] 

Postal 
address: 

[Purchaser's PO box 
details/Same as delivery 
address] 

Email: 
[insert] 

32 
Supplier 
Name 
[Supplier:  Name] 

Delivery 
Address 

[Supplier:  Delivery address] 

Postal 
address: 

[Supplier's PO box 
details/Same as delivery 
address] 

Email: 
[insert] 

30 
32 
Must notices be sent 
by an electronic 
management system 

[Yes/No – if 
Yes, specify 
Teambinder] 

 

31 
33.2 
Customs clearance 
and Australian 
customs duty 

[Insert party 
responsible 
for payment] 

 

 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 54 

Schedule 2 

Performance Criteria 

( clause 1 and clause 2.3 ) 

[ Note:   This Schedule 2 is an example only of a regime dealing with Performance Criteria, 
Minimum Performance Criteria and a Performance Liquidated Damages Regime.  It should be 
reviewed and adjusted or replaced as relevant for the particular Equipment being procured.  In 
many cases, it may be more usual that this regime will apply where installation is required.  If 
that is the case, then please use the supply contract with installation template] 

1 
Obligations 

(a) 
The Supplier: 

(i) 
guarantees that the Equipment will achieve the Performance Criteria.; and 

(ii) 
must monitor the Work under the Contract and its other obligations under 
the Contract.  

(b) 
Without limiting the Supplier’s other obligations under this Contract, and subject 
to paragraph (c), if the Supplier fails to achieve any of the Performance Criteria, 
the Purchaser may give written direction to the Supplier to take the remedial 
steps contemplated by  section 5  of this  schedule 2  or such other reasonable 
steps to ensure that the Performance Criteria are achieved. 

[ Note:   what (if any) impacts would POPL like to see flow from a failure to 
achieve the Performance Criteria (e.g. a pain / gain adjustment to the Contract 
Price or performance LDs.  Please note additional draft performance LDs 
provision included below)?] 

(c) 
Without limiting any other right or remedy of the Purchaser under this Contract, if 
the Equipment fails to achieve the Minimum Performance Criteria, the Purchaser 
may reject the Equipment. 

(d) 
The Supplier must comply with any direction given by the Purchaser under 
paragraph (b). 

(e) 
The parties acknowledge that the Supplier will not be in breach of its obligations 
in this  schedule 2  or the Performance Criteria to the extent that the Purchaser 
directly causes the Supplier to breach its obligations under this  schedule 2  or to 
fail to achieve the relevant Performance Criteria. 

2 
Performance Criteria 

(a) 
[insert Performance Criteria]   

(b) 
[Insert Minimum Performance Criteria] 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 55 

3 
Performance Tests 

[ Note:   The performance testing regime will need to be adjusted on a case by case 
basis as may be applicable to the Equipment.  This will include specifying the timing of 
performance tests to be undertaken.] 

(a) 
Where the Contract provides for performance tests to be carried out by the 
Supplier, the Supplier must carry out those performance tests in accordance 
with, and at the time or times required by, the Contract.  In respect of such 
performance tests, the Supplier must: 

(i) 
provide the Purchaser with reasonable prior notice of those tests and the 
opportunity to attend those tests; and 

(ii) 
all reasonable information regarding the performance testing.  

(b) 
Where the Contract provides for performance tests to be carried out by the 
Purchaser or by third parties: 

(i) 
the Purchaser will provide the Supplier with reasonable prior notice of 
those tests; 

(ii) 
the Supplier must attend at those performance tests; and 

(iii) 
the Supplier must provide the Purchaser or third parties undertaking the 
performance tests or both (as the case may be), with all reasonable 
assistance and information to assist with the required performance testing. 

(c) 
If the Equipment does not achieve the Minimum Performance Criteria during the 
performance tests, the Supplier must, at its own cost: 

(i) 
carry out all work required to achieve the Minimum Performance Criteria; 
and 

(ii) 
following completion of such work: 

(A) 
where the Contract provides for the performance tests to be carried 
out by the Supplier: 

▪  
repeat the performance tests; and 

▪  
provide not less than 5 Business Days’ notice to the 
Purchaser’s Representative of the date on which it will repeat 
the performance test. 

(d) 
The requirements of  section 3  of this  schedule 2  continue to apply until the 
Equipment achieves the relevant Minimum Performance Criteria. 

(e) 
Without prejudice to  clause 21 , if the Equipment has not achieved the Minimum 
Performance Criteria by the Longstop Date the Purchaser may, in its absolute 
discretion, immediately terminate the Contract by written notice to the Supplier.  
Termination pursuant to  section 3(d)  of this  schedule 2  will be deemed to be a 
termination pursuant to  clause 27.1 . 

4 
Performance Liquidated Damages 

4.1 
Liability for Performance Liquidated Damages 

(a) 
If the Equipment does not achieve the Performance Criteria by the Longstop 
Date but has achieved the Minimum Performance Criteria, the Supplier must pay 
to the Purchaser Performance Liquidated Damages at the relevant rate set out in 
schedule 1 . [ Note:   Please consider whether POPL will offer a cap on 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 56 

performance liquidated damages, or deal with this only where applicable and 
requested by a supplier] 

(b) 
Performance Liquidated Damages payable pursuant to this  section 4  will 
immediately become a debt due and payable to the Purchaser. 

(c) 
The Purchaser’s Representative may, at any time, give the Supplier a written 
demand for any Performance Liquidated Damages payable by the Supplier 
pursuant to  section 4  of this  schedule 2 . 

(d) 
The Supplier acknowledges that the level of Performance Liquidated Damages 
identified in  schedule 1  is a genuine pre-estimate of the loss suffered by the 
Purchaser in relation to the Equipment failing to achieve the Performance 
Criteria and is not a penalty.  

(e) 
Payment by the Supplier of any Performance Liquidated Damages will not 
relieve the Supplier of its obligation to ensure that the Equipment will achieve the 
Minimum Performance Criteria or any of its other obligations (save in respect of 
its obligation to achieve the requisite level of Performance Criteria in respect of 
which the Purchaser has accepted and received the payment of Performance 
Liquidated Damages in accordance with  section 4  of this  schedule 2 ) or other 
liabilities under the Contract.  

4.2 
If amount nil 

If  schedule 1  is not completed or is completed by words which indicate that 
Performance Liquidated Damages will not apply to this Contract (whether by the use of 
the words ‘not applicable’, ‘nil’ or otherwise) or if  section 4  of this  schedule 2  is found 
to be unenforceable for any reason, the Supplier must indemnify the Purchaser from 
any Loss suffered or incurred by the Purchaser by reason of the Equipment not 
achieving the Performance Criteria. 

5 
Remedial steps 

(a) 
[Insert] 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 57 

Schedule 3 

Drawings 

( clause 1 ) 

[List Drawings] 

 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 58 

Schedule 4 

Specification 

( clause 1 ) 

[Describe Specification] 

 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 59 

Schedule 5 

Approved Subcontractors 

Approved Subcontractor 
Work under the Contract for which 
Subcontractor approved 

 
 

 
 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 60 

Schedule 6 

Rates for Calculation of Contract Price 

 

(Where the entire Contract Price is a lump sum, these rates will only be used for valuing 
Variations.) 

[Set out Rates] 

 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 61 

Schedule 7 

Approved Form of Financial Undertaking 

( clause 5.1 ) 

Details 

Bank 
Name 
 

ABN 
 

Purchaser 
Name 
< 1A-Purchaser:  Name >  

ABN 
< Purchaser: ACN/ABN >  

Address 
< 1C-Purchaser:  Address >  

Supplier 
Name 
< 2A-Supplier:  Name >  

ABN 
< Supplier: ACN/ABN >  

Address 
< 2C-Supplier:  Address >  

Contract 
Date 
 

Description 
 

Amount 
 

 

The terms defined in the Details section above apply when used in this undertaking. 

1 
At the request of the Supplier and in consideration of the Supplier accepting this 
undertaking by way of security to the Purchaser for the performance by the Supplier of 
its obligations under the Contract, the Bank undertakes unconditionally and irrevocably 
to pay the Purchaser on demand any sum or sums which may from time to time be 
demanded by the Purchaser to a maximum aggregate of the Amount. 

2 
This undertaking is to continue until the first to occur of the following: 

(a) 
a written notification has been received from the Purchaser that such sum is no 
longer required by the Purchaser; 

(b) 
this undertaking is returned to the Bank; or 

(c) 
payment to the Purchaser by the Bank of the whole of the Amount. 

3 
The Bank must make payment of the Amount or any part or parts of the Amount to the 
Purchaser: 

(a) 
immediately upon the Bank receiving at any place where the Bank carries on 
business a written demand from the Purchaser; 

(b) 
so that it is immediately available and freely transferable in Australian dollars 
clear of and without any deductions; 

(c) 
without reference by the Bank to the Supplier; 

(d) 
despite any notice given to the Bank by the Supplier not to pay the Purchaser 
any part of the Amount;  and 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 62 

(e) 
irrespective of the performance or non-performance by the Supplier or the 
Purchaser of the Contract in any respect. 

4 
The Bank acknowledges its obligations under this undertaking constitute direct 
primary, irrevocable and unconditional obligations.  The Bank further acknowledges its 
obligations under this undertaking will not be abated, suspended, abrogated, varied, 
discharged or otherwise prejudiced or affected by any matter or thing which, in the 
absence of this provision, would or might have that effect, except for a discharge or 
amendment expressly made or agreed to in writing by the Purchaser. 

5 
The Bank may at any time, without being required to do so, pay to the Purchaser the 
Amount less any amount or amounts it has previously paid under this undertaking and 
when it has done so the liability of the Bank under this undertaking will immediately 
cease and determine. 

6 
The Purchaser may assign this undertaking to any person and upon receipt of 
notification to the Bank in writing, the Bank undertakes to make any payment claimed 
under this undertaking to the person specified in the notice which will constitute a full 
and valid discharge to the Bank in relation to the payment. 

7 
If two or more persons are named as the Purchaser, this undertaking takes effect for 
the benefit of them jointly and a demand under this unconditional undertaking by any 
one or more of them is deemed to be a demand by both or all of them jointly. 

8 
This unconditional undertaking is governed by and is to be construed in accordance 
with the laws of [Name of State or Territory]. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 63 

Schedule 8 

Deed of Guarantee and Indemnity 

( clause 5.1 ) 

 

 

[date] 

[#] (Guarantor) 

[#] (Beneficiary) 

 (Supplier) 

Guarantee and 
Indemnity 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 64 

Date 

Parties 

[ insert ] ACN [insert] of [ insert Address ] ( Guarantor ) 

[ insert ] ACN [insert] of [ insert Address ] ( Beneficiary ) 

 of  ( Supplier )  

 

Agreed terms 

1 
Definitions 

(a) 
The following words have these meanings in this guarantee and 
indemnity: 

Supply Contract 
The agreement dated on or about the date of 
this guarantee and indemnity between the 
Beneficiary and the Supplier. 

Related Entity   of an 
entity 

Another entity which is related to the first 
within the meaning of section 50 of the 
Corporations Act or is in any economic entity 
(as defined in any approved accounting 
standard) which contains the first. 

(b) 
Terms not otherwise defined in this guarantee and indemnity have the 
same meaning as in the Supply Contract. 

2 
Consideration 

(a) 
The Guarantor gives this guarantee and indemnity for a consideration of 
[#] Australian dollars (AUD[#]).  The Guarantor acknowledges receipt of 
that consideration 

(b) 
The Guarantor acknowledges the receipt of valuable consideration from 
the Beneficiary for the Guarantor incurring obligations and giving rights 
under this guarantee and indemnity. 

3 
Guarantee 

(a) 
The Guarantor unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the 
Beneficiary the due and punctual performance and observance by the 
Supplier of its obligations under the Supply Contract, including (without 
limitation) the obligation to execute and complete the Work under the 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 65 

Contract in accordance with the Supply Contract and the obligation to 
pay money. 

(b) 
Nothing in this guarantee and indemnity restricts or otherwise affects the 
rights of the Beneficiary under the Supply Contract. 

4 
Indemnity 

As a separate undertaking, the Guarantor unconditionally and irrevocably 
indemnifies the Beneficiary against all Loss the Beneficiary suffers and any 
costs, charges or expenses incurred by the Beneficiary to the extent that the 
Supplier is, or would be liable to the Beneficiary under the Supply Contract, 
including (without limitation) a breach of the obligation to execute and complete 
the Work under the Contract in accordance with the Supply Contract and a 
breach of an obligation to pay money.  It is not necessary for the Beneficiary to 
incur expense or make payment before enforcing that right of indemnity. 

5 
Completion undertaking 

(a) 
If the Beneficiary is entitled to terminate the Supply Contract and the 
Beneficiary gives the Guarantor a written notice of that entitlement, then: 

(i) 
the Guarantor must perform the Supplier’s obligations under the 
Supply Contract; and 

(ii) 
for that purpose, the Guarantor must give a written notice to the 
Beneficiary and the Supplier stating its intention to have the Supply 
Contract novated in its favour; 

(iii) 
on and from the date of that notice: 

(A) 
all the rights and obligations of the Supplier under the Supply 
Contract will be taken to have been novated to the 
Guarantor; 

(B) 
the Guarantor must perform all of the obligations of the 
Supplier under the Supply Contract which are not performed 
at the date of the notice; and 

(C) 
the Guarantor is bound by the Supply Contract as if the 
Guarantor had originally been named in the Supply Contract 
in place of the Supplier. 

(b) 
The Supplier irrevocably and severally appoints (for valuable 
consideration) the Guarantor and any authorised representative of the 
Guarantor to be the Supplier’s attorney to execute, sign, seal and deliver 
all notices, deeds and documents for the purpose referred to in 
clause 5(a)(iii) .   

(c) 
The Supplier ratifies anything done by an attorney or its delegate in 
accordance with  clause 5(b) . 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 66 

6 
Interest  

The Guarantor must pay interest on any amount payable under this guarantee 
and indemnity from when the amount becomes due for payment until it is paid 
in full at the rate (upon the date on which it should have been paid) which is the 
90 day Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate (Average Bid) as published in the 
Australian Financial Review. 

7 
Enforcement of rights 

The Guarantor waives any right it has of first requiring the Beneficiary to 
commence proceedings or enforce any other right against the Supplier or any 
other person before claiming under this guarantee and indemnity. 

8 
Continuing security 

This guarantee and indemnity is a continuing security and is not discharged by 
any one payment or any one act. 

9 
Guarantee not affected 

The liabilities of the Guarantor under this guarantee and indemnity as a 
guarantor, indemnifier or debtor and the rights of the Beneficiary under this 
guarantee and indemnity are not affected by anything which might otherwise 
affect them at law or in equity including, but not limited to, one or more of the 
following: 

(a) 
the Beneficiary granting time or other indulgence to, compounding or 
compromising with or releasing the Supplier; 

(b) 
acquiescence, delay, acts, omissions or mistakes on the part of the 
Beneficiary; 

(c) 
any novation of a right of the Beneficiary; 

(d) 
any variation of the Supply Contract; or 

(e) 
the invalidity or unenforceability of an obligation or liability of a person 
other than the Guarantor. 

10 
Suspension of Guarantor’s rights 

The Guarantor may not, without the consent of the Beneficiary: 

(a) 
raise a set-off or counterclaim available to it or the Supplier against the 
Beneficiary in reduction of its liability under this guarantee and indemnity; 
or 

(b) 
claim to be entitled by way of contribution, indemnity, subrogation, 
marshalling or otherwise to the benefit of any security or guarantee held 
by the Beneficiary in connection with the Supply Contract. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 67 

11 
Reinstatement of Guarantee 

If a claim that a payment or transfer to the Beneficiary in connection with the 
Supply Contract or this guarantee and indemnity is void or voidable (including, 
but not limited to, a claim under laws relating to liquidation, insolvency or 
protection of creditors) is upheld, conceded or compromised, then the 
Beneficiary is entitled immediately as against the Guarantor to the rights to 
which it would have been entitled under this guarantee and indemnity if the 
payment or transfer had not occurred. 

12 
Novation 

(a) 
The Guarantor acknowledges that in certain circumstances the Supply 
Contract may be assigned or novated. 

(b) 
The Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that its obligations under this 
guarantee and indemnity extend to the Supply Contract as assigned or 
novated. 

(c) 
The Beneficiary may assign the benefit of this guarantee and indemnity 
to the same person to whom the Supply Contract is assigned or novated. 

(d) 
The Guarantor agrees to enter into a guarantee and indemnity on the 
same terms as this guarantee and indemnity in favour of any person to 
whom the Supply Contract is assigned or novated. 

13 
Costs 

(a) 
The Guarantor must pay or reimburse the Beneficiary on demand for: 

(i) 
the Beneficiary’s costs, charges and expenses in making, 
enforcing and doing anything in connection with this guarantee and 
indemnity including, but not limited to, legal costs and expenses on 
a full indemnity basis; and 

(ii) 
all stamp duties, taxes and charges which are payable in 
connection with this guarantee and indemnity or a payment, receipt 
or other transaction contemplated by it. 

Money paid to the Beneficiary by the Guarantor must be applied first 
against payment of costs, charges and expenses under this clause then 
against other obligations under the guarantee and indemnity. 

(b) 
To the extent that any monies payable by the Guarantor under any other 
clause of the guarantee and indemnity are regarded for the purposes of 
any law relating to GST as consideration (in whole or in part) for a 
taxable supply, the Guarantor must pay an additional amount to the 
Beneficiary calculated by multiplying the consideration for the supply by 
the prevailing GST rate.  For the purposes of  clause 13(b) , GST is 
defined as a goods and services tax, as governed by  A New Tax System 
(Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999  (Cth). 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 68 

14 
Notices 

(a) 
Any notice, consent approval or other communication under this deed 
must be: 

(i) 
in writing; 

(ii) 
delivered by hand or by mail to the address, or sent to the email 
address shown below: 

(A) 
to the Beneficiary: 

[#] 

Attention:  
[#] 

Email:  
[#] 

(B) 
to the Guarantor: 

[#] 

Attention:  
[#] 

Email:  
[#] 

(C) 
to the Supplier: 

[#] 

Attention:  
[#] 

Email: 
[#] 

(iii) 
marked with the following title: 

[#] 

(b) 
A notice is given on the day that: 

(i) 
it is delivered to the addressee; or 

(ii) 
if transmitted by email, when the communication enters the 
information system on which the mailbox of the recipient’s email 
address resides. A notice is taken to have entered the information 
system on which the mailbox of the recipient’s email address 
resides at the time it was sent if the sender does not receive 
notification within 24 hours of sending the communication that the 
communication has not been delivered. If a notice is taken to have 
entered the information system on which the mailbox of the 
recipient’s email address resides after 5.00pm or on a day which is 
not a Business Day, it is taken as delivered at 9.00am on the next 
Business Day. 

(c) 
A party may, from time to time, notify the other parties of any change to 
its details in  clause 14(a)(ii) . 

15 
Governing law 

(a) 
The law of this deed is the law in force in Western Australia. 

(b) 
The parties submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of 
Western Australia. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 69 

16 
Counterparts 

This deed may consist of a number of copies of this deed, each signed by one 
or more parties to this deed.  When taken together, the signed copies are 
treated as making up the one document. 

 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 70 

Execution 

Executed  as a deed 

 

Executed  by  [#]  ACN   [#] in accordance 
with section 127 of the  Corporations Act 
2001  (Cth):  
 

) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 

 

.............................................................. 
Company Secretary/Director 
 

 
.............................................................. 
Director 
 
.............................................................. 
Name of Company Secretary/Director  
 

 
.............................................................. 
Name of Director 
 
 

 

Executed  by  [#]  ACN   [#] in accordance 
with section 127 of the  Corporations Act 
2001  (Cth):  
 

) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 

 

.............................................................. 
Company Secretary/Director 
 

 
.............................................................. 
Director 
 
.............................................................. 
Name of Company Secretary/Director  
 

 
.............................................................. 
Name of Director 
 
 

 

Executed  by    ACN   [#] in accordance 
with section 127 of the  Corporations Act 
2001  (Cth):  
 

) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 

 

.............................................................. 
Company Secretary/Director 
 

 
.............................................................. 
Director 
 
.............................................................. 
Name of Company Secretary/Director  
 

 
.............................................................. 
Name of Director 
 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 71 

Schedule 9 

Hold Points 

( clause 13.1 ) 

[insert Hold Points or mark as not applicable] 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 72 

Schedule 10 

Policies 

( clause 4.3 ) 

[insert POPL policies for the Supplier to comply with, including polices applicable to the 
mine site] 

 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 73 

Schedule 11 

Form of Novation Agreement 

( clause 38.1 ) 

Deed of Novation 

Date 
 

 

Parties 

 

Purchaser 
Name 
[ Insert ] (ACN [ insert ])  

 
Address 
[ Insert ] 

 
Email 
[ Insert ] 

 
Attention 
[ Insert ] 

Supplier 
Name 
[ Insert ] (ACN [ insert ]) 

 
Address 
[ Insert ] 

 
Email 
[ Insert ] 

 
Attention 
[ Insert ] 

Works Contractor 
Name 
[ Insert ] (ACN [ insert ]) 

 
Address 
[ Insert ] 

 
Email 
[ Insert ] 

 
Attention 
[ Insert ] 

Recitals 

A. 
By agreement dated [ insert ] ( Supply Contract ), the Purchaser has engaged 
the Supplier to supply the Equipment and to perform the Services for the 
Purchaser.  

B. 
The Purchaser has entered into the Works Contract with the Works Contractor. 

C. 
The Supply Contract requires the Supplier to execute this deed if directed to do 
so by the Purchaser.  

D. 
Pursuant to the Supply Contract, the Purchaser has directed the Supplier to 
execute this deed.  


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 74 

E. 
Subject to this deed, the Works Contractor has agreed to accept the Purchaser’s 
liabilities and obligations under the Supply Contract.  

F. 
Subject to this deed, the Supplier has agreed to accept the Work Contractor in 
place of the Purchaser for the performance of the obligations of the Purchaser 
and to release completely and discharge the Purchaser from all of its obligations 
under the Supply Contract and from all claims and demands in respect of the 
Supply Contract.  

General Conditions: 

1 
Works Contractor’s obligations 

The Works Contractor must perform all of the obligations of the Purchaser under the 
Supply Contract which are not performed at the date of this deed. The Works Contractor 
is bound by the Supply Contract as if the Works Contractor had originally been named in 
the Supply Contract in place of the Purchaser. 

2 
Release of Purchaser by Supplier 

The Supplier: 

(a)  
releases and forever discharges the Purchaser from its obligations under 
the Supply Contract and from all claims and demands in respect of the 
Supply Contract; and 

(b)  
subject to this deed, accepts the liability of the Works Contractor in place 
of the liability of the Purchaser under or in relation to the Supply Contract. 

3 
Works Contractor's obligations 

The Works Contractor must perform its obligations under, and be bound by, the Supply 
Contract as if the Works Contractor was originally named in the Supply Contract in place 
of the Purchaser. 

4 
Security and insurance 

4.1 
Security 

The Supplier must replace: 

(a)  
any security provided by the Supplier to the Purchaser in accordance with 
Clause 5.1(a) of the Supply Contract with the equivalent security in favour 
of the Works Contractor; and  

(b)  
any Deed of Guarantee and Indemnity provided by in accordance with 
Clause 5.1(b) of the Supply Contract with a new Deed of Guarantee and 
Indemnity in favour of the Works Contractor. 

4.2 
Insurance 

The Supplier must ensure that: 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 75 

(a)  
the workers’ compensation insurance to be effected by the Supplier in 
accordance with  clause 25.1(b)  of the Supply Contract is endorsed so as 
to provide: 

(A) that the Works Contractor is indemnified as principal against any 

liability which it may incur to such Supplier employees or workers, 
arising by virtue of any applicable workers’ compensation legislation 
and at common law, including any liability incurred as a deemed 
employer; and 

(B) for the Works Contractor to be named as the ‘principal’ and for the 

insurance to include a waiver of subrogation from the insurer in favour 
of the Works Contractor as ‘principal’, 

in accordance with  clause 25.1(b)  of the Supply Contract; and 

(b) 
any insurance policies taken out by the Supplier pursuant to 
clause 25.1(b)(ii)  and  clause 25.1(b)(iv)  of the Supply Contract name the 
Works Contractor as an interested party in accordance with  clause 25.3(a)  
of the Supply Agreement. 

 

5 
Confidentiality 

The Supplier must not, and must ensure that its employees and subcontractors do not, 
without the Purchaser’s prior written approval, disclose or give to any person any 
document or other information that is the property of the Purchaser (or any copy or 
record of any such document or information), or any confidential report concerning the 
business or finances of the Purchaser acquired by the Supplier before, on or after the 
date of this deed (whether under the Supply Contract or this deed), except for the 
purposes of performing its obligations under the Supply Contract. 

6 
Payment of Contract Price 

The parties acknowledge and agree that the Purchaser has paid the Supplier [ insert ] 
($[ insert ]), being all amounts due to the Supplier from the Purchaser under the Supply 
Contract at the date of this deed. 

7 
Governing law and jurisdiction 

(a)  
This deed will be interpreted under and governed by the law in force in 
Western Australia. 

(b)  
Each party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the exclusive 
jurisdiction of the courts of Western Australia and courts of appeal from 
them.  

(c)  
Subject to the parties having first had regard to the provisions of the 
Supply Contract regarding dispute resolution, each party waives any right 
it has to object to an action being brought in those courts including by 
claiming that the action has been brought in an inconvenient forum or that 
those courts do not have jurisdiction. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 76 

8 
Costs of novation 

Each party must bear its own costs, charges and expenses (including, without limitation, 
legal expenses) in entering into this deed. 

9 
Notices 

9.1 
Giving notices 

Any notice or communication given to a party under this deed is only given if it is 
in writing and sent in one of the following ways: 

(a)  
delivered by hand to the person to whom the notice is addressed;  

(b)  
delivered or posted to that party at its address and marked for the 
attention of the relevant department or officer (if any) set out in this deed; 
or 

(c)  
sent to that party at the email address and marked for the attention of the 
relevant department or officer (if any) set out in this deed. 

9.2 
Change of address or email  

If a party gives another party 3 Business Days' notice of a change of its address, 
any notice or communication is only given by that other party if it is delivered or 
posted to the latest address. 

9.3 
Time notice is given 

Any notice or communication is to be treated as given at the following time: 

(a)  
if it is delivered by hand, when it is left at the relevant address if it is a 
Business Day, otherwise the next Business Day; 

(b)  
if it is sent by post, 5 Business Days (or, in the case of a notice or 
communication posted to another country), 15 Business Days after it is 
posted; or 

(c)  
if sent by electronic mail, when the communication enters the information 
system on which the mailbox of the recipient’s email address resides. A 
notice is taken to have entered the information system on which the 
mailbox of the recipient’s email address resides at the time it was sent if 
the sender does not receive notification within 24 hours of sending the 
communication that the communication has not been delivered. If a notice 
is taken to have entered the information system on which the mailbox of 
the recipient’s email address resides on a day which is not a Business 
Day, it is taken as delivered on the next Business Day. 

10  Miscellaneous 

10.1 Assignments and transfers 

(a)  
A party must not assign or deal with any of its rights or obligations under 
this deed without the prior written consent of the other parties. 

(b)  
Any purported dealing in breach of this clause is of no effect. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 77 

10.2 Entire agreement 

This deed contains everything the parties have agreed in relation to the subject 
matter it deals with.  No party can rely on an earlier written document or anything 
said or done by or on behalf of another party before this deed was executed. 

10.3 Execution of counterparts 

This deed is properly executed if each party executes either this deed or an 
identical counterpart of this document.  In the latter case, this deed takes effect 
when the separately executed counterparts are exchanged between the parties. 

10.4 Further acts 

Each party must at its own expense promptly execute all documents and do or 
use reasonable endeavours to cause a third party to do all things that another 
party from time to time may reasonably request in order to give effect to, perfect or 
complete this deed and all transactions incidental to it. 

10.5 Joint and individual liability and benefits 

Where any party is comprised of more than one person, any agreement, 
covenant, representation or warranty under this deed by that party binds each 
person comprising that party jointly and each of them individually, and any benefit 
in favour of two or more persons is for the benefit of them jointly and each of them 
individually. 

10.6 Invalidity and enforceability 

(a)  
If any provision of this deed is invalid under the law of any jurisdiction the 
provision is enforceable in that jurisdiction to the extent that it is not 
invalid, whether it is in severable terms or not. 

(b)  
Clause 10.6(a)  does not apply where enforcement of the provision of this 
deed in accordance with  clause 10.6(a)  would materially affect the nature 
or effect of the parties' obligations under this deed. 

10.7 Variation 

No variation of this deed will be of any force or effect unless it is in writing and 
signed by each party to this deed. 

10.8 Waivers 

(a)  
A waiver of any right, power or remedy under this deed must be in writing 
signed by the party granting it.  A waiver only affects the particular 
obligation or breach for which it is given.  It is not an implied waiver of any 
other obligation or breach or an implied waiver of that obligation or breach 
on any other occasion. 

(b)  
The fact that a party fails to do, or delays in doing, something the party is 
entitled to do under this deed does not amount to a waiver. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 78 

11 Definitions and interpretation 

11.1 Definitions 

Definitions in the Contract apply in respect of the interpretation and operation of 
this deed and the following definitions apply: 

(a)   
Business Day  means a day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or public 
holiday in Western Australia; and 

(b) 
Works Contract  means contract between the Purchaser and the Works 
Contractor entered into on [ insert date ] for the performance of [ insert 
type of works ]. 

11.2 Interpretation 

In this deed unless the contrary intention appears: 

(a)  
headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the 
interpretation of this deed; 

(b)  
a reference to a day is to be interpreted as the period of time commencing 
at midnight and ending 24 hours later; 

(c)  
a reference in this deed to dollars or $ means Australian dollars and all 
amounts payable under this Contract are payable in Australian dollars; 

(d)  
a reference in this deed to any law, legislation or legislative provision 
includes any statutory modification, amendment or re–enactment, and any 
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or 
legislative provision; 

(e)  
a reference in this deed to any agreement or document is to that 
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced; 

(f)  
a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a 
clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this deed; 

(g)  
an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental 
agency; 

(h)  
where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of 
speech or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a 
corresponding meaning; 

(i)  
a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which 
denotes the plural also denotes the singular, and a reference to any 
gender also denotes the other genders; 

(j)  
a reference to the word 'include' or 'including' is to be construed without 
limitation; 

(k)  
a reference to this deed includes this agreement recorded in this deed; 
and 

(l)  
any schedules and attachments form part of this deed. 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 79 

Execution 
 
Executed  as a deed . 

 
 
Executed  by  Pilgangoora Operations 
Pty Ltd ACN 616 560 395  in 
accordance with section 127(1) of the 
Corporations Act:  

) 
) 
) 
) 
 

 

 
 
.............................................................. 
Company Secretary/Director 
 
.............................................................. 
Name of Company Secretary/Director 
(print) 

 
 
 
............................................................. 
Director 
 
............................................................. 
Name of Director 
(print) 
 
 
Executed  by  [ insert   name and ACN 
of Supplier]  in accordance with 
section 127(1) of the Corporations Act:  

) 
) 
) 
 

 

 
 
.............................................................. 
Company Secretary/Director 
 
.............................................................. 
Name of Company Secretary/Director 
(print) 

 
 
 
............................................................. 
Director 
 
............................................................. 
Name of Director 
(print) 
 

Executed  by  [ insert name and ACN 
of Works Contractor ]  in accordance 
with section 127(1) of the Corporations 
Act:  

) 
) 
) 

 

 
 
.............................................................. 
Company Secretary/Director 
 
.............................................................. 
Name of Company Secretary/Director 
(print) 

 
 
 
............................................................. 
Director 
 
............................................................. 
Name of Director 
(print) 
 

[End of Schedule] 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 80 

Schedule 12 

Scope of Services 
 
 
[If applicable, insert scope of any ancillary services the Supplier must perform (i.e. 
training, supervision of performance tests or installation of Equipment on Site)] 
 


 

Supply Contract - 
No Installation  
page 81 

Execution 

Executed  as a deed . 

 

Executed  by  Pilgangoora Operations 
Pty Ltd ABN 75 616 560 395  in 
accordance with section 127(1) of the 
Corporations Act:  

) 
) 
 

 

 
 
.............................................................. 
Company Secretary/Director 
 
.............................................................. 
Name of Company Secretary/Director 
(print) 

 
 
 
............................................................. 
Director 
 
............................................................. 
Name of Director 
(print) 
 

 

Executed  by  [name and ABN of 
Supplier]  in accordance with section 
127(1) of the Corporations Act:  

) 
) 
 

 

 
 
.............................................................. 
Company Secretary/Director 
 
.............................................................. 
Name of Company Secretary/Director 
(print) 

 
 
 
............................................................. 
Director 
 
............................................................. 
Name of Director 
(print) 


ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT

 

THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT dated as of April 7, 2014 is by and among The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., not in its individual capacity, but solely as successor-in-interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, not in its individual capacity, but solely as Guarantee Trustee (herein, together with its successors in interest, the “Guarantee Trustee”), PacWest Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the “Successor Guarantor”), and CapitalSource Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Parent Guarantor”), under the Parent Guarantee Agreement referred to below.

 

RECITALS

 

WHEREAS, the Guarantee Trustee and the Parent Guarantor are parties to that certain Parent Guarantee Agreement dated as of September 29, 2006 (the “Parent Guarantee Agreement”), pursuant to which the Parent Guarantor agreed to pay in full the Parent Guarantee Payments with respect to the Notes of CapitalSource Finance LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of the Parent Guarantor, due October 30, 2036;

 

WHEREAS, as permitted by the terms of the Parent Guarantee Agreement, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 22, 2013, as amended, the Parent Guarantor will merge with and into the Successor Guarantor (the “Merger”) with the Successor Guarantor as the surviving corporation; and

 

WHEREAS, the parties hereto are entering into this Assignment and Assumption Agreement pursuant to, and in accordance with, Article IX of the Parent Guarantee Agreement.

 

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Guarantee Trustee, the Parent Guarantor and the Successor Guarantor hereby agree as follows:

 

SECTION 1.                         Definitions.  All capitalized terms used herein that are defined in the Parent Guarantee Agreement, either directly or by reference therein, shall have the respective meanings assigned them in the Parent Guarantee Agreement except as otherwise provided herein or unless the context otherwise requires.

 

SECTION 2.                         Assumption of Obligations.

 

(a)                                 Pursuant to, and in compliance and accordance with, Section 9.1 of the Parent Guarantee Agreement, the Successor Guarantor hereby expressly assumes the due and punctual payment of the Parent Guarantee Payments and the performance of every covenant and obligation of the Parent Guarantor to be performed under the Parent Guarantee Agreement on the part of the Parent Guarantor to be performed or observed.

 

 

(b)                                 Pursuant to, and in compliance and accordance with, Section 9.3 of the Parent Guarantee Agreement, the Successor Guarantor succeeds to, and is substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Parent Guarantor under the Parent Guarantee Agreement, with the same effect as if the Successor Guarantor had been named as the Parent Guarantor in the Parent Guarantee Agreement, and the Parent Guarantor is discharged from all obligations and covenants under the Parent Guarantee Agreement and the Notes.

 

(c)                                  The Successor Guarantor also succeeds to, and is substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Parent Guarantor under (i) the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2006 (the “Trust Agreement”), and (ii) the Indenture, with the same effect as if the Successor Guarantor had been named as the Parent Guarantor in such agreements, and the Parent Guarantor is discharged from all obligations and covenants under the Trust Agreement and the Indenture.

 

SECTION 3.                         Representations and Warranties.  The Successor Guarantor represents and warrants that (a) it has all necessary corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption Agreement and to perform the Parent Guarantee Agreement, (b) it will be, upon the effectiveness of this Agreement the successor of the Parent Guarantor pursuant to the Merger effected in accordance with applicable law, (c) it is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Delaware, (d) immediately after giving effect to the Merger and this Assignment and Assumption Agreement, no Event of Default, and no event that, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default, has happened and is continuing and (e) this Assignment and Assumption Agreement is executed and delivered pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Parent Guarantee Agreement and does not require the consent of the Holders.  The Parent Guarantor represents and warrants that immediately before giving effect to the Merger and this Assignment and Assumption Agreement, no Event of Default, and no event that, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default before giving effect to the Merger and this Assignment and Assumption Agreement, has happened and is continuing.

 

SECTION 4.                         Conditions of Effectiveness.  This Assignment and Assumption Agreement shall become effective simultaneously with the effectiveness of the Merger, provided, however, that:

 

(a)                                 the Guarantee Trustee shall have executed and delivered a counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption Agreement and shall have received one or more counterparts of this Assignment and Assumption Agreement executed by the Parent Guarantor and the Successor Guarantor;

 

(b)                                 the Guarantee Trustee shall have received an Officers’ Certificate stating that (i) in the opinion of the signers, the Merger and this Assignment and Assumption Agreement comply with Article IX of the Parent Guarantee Agreement and (ii) in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent therein provided for relating to the Merger have been complied with;

 

2

 

(c)                                  the Guarantee Trustee shall have received an Opinion of Counsel stating that (i) the Merger and this Assignment and Assumption Agreement comply with Article IX of the Parent Guarantee Agreement and (ii) all conditions precedent therein provided for relating to the Merger have been complied with, subject to the assumptions and qualifications set forth therein; and

 

(d)                                 the Successor Guarantor and the Parent Guarantor shall have duly executed and filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware the Certificate of Merger in connection with the Merger.

 

SECTION 5.                         Reference to the Parent Guarantee Agreement.

 

(a)                                 Upon the effectiveness of this Assignment and Assumption Agreement, each reference in the Parent Guarantee Agreement to “this Parent Guarantee Agreement,” “hereunder,” “herein” or words of like import shall mean and be a reference to the Parent Guarantee Agreement, as affected, amended and supplemented hereby.

 

(b)                                 The Parent Guarantee Agreement, as amended and supplemented hereby, shall remain in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 

SECTION 6.                         Execution in Counterparts.  This Assignment and Assumption Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute but one and the same instrument.

 

SECTION 7.                         Governing Law; Binding Effect.  This Assignment and Assumption Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York and shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.

 

SECTION 8.                         The Guarantee Trustee.  The Guarantee Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Assignment and Assumption Agreement or the due execution thereof by the Parent Guarantor or the Successor Guarantor.  The recitals of fact contained herein shall be taken as the statements solely of the Parent Guarantor or the Successor Guarantor, and the Guarantee Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof.

 

[Signatures on following page]

 

3

 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Assignment and Assumption Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first written above.

 

 

 
	

CapitalSource Inc.

 
	

 

 
	

 
	

 
	

 

 
	

By:
	

/s/ John A. Bogler

 
	

 
	

Name:
	

John A. Bogler

 
	

 
	

Title:
	

Chief Financial Officer

 
	

 
	

 
	

 

 
	

 

 
	

PacWest Bancorp

 
	

 

 
	

 
	

 
	

 

 
	

By:
	

/s/ Victor R. Santoro

 
	

 
	

Name:
	

Victor R. Santoro

 
	

 
	

Title:
	

Executive Vice President and

 
	

 
	

 
	

Chief Financial Officer

 
	

 
	

 
	

 

 
	

 
	

 
	

 

 
	

The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., not in its individual capacity, but solely as Guarantee Trustee

 
	

 
	

 
	

 

 
	

By:
	

/s/ Esther Antoine

 
	

 
	

Name:
	

Esther Antoine

 
	

 
	

Title:
	

Vice President

  

SECOND AMENDMENT TO MASTER LOAN AGREEMENT

 

This SECOND AMENDMENT TO MASTER LOAN AGREEMENT is dated as of March 28th, 2013 (this “Amendment”), among EP Aviation, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the “Borrower”), BMO Harris Bank N.A. (formerly known as Harris N.A.), a national banking association (“Harris”), as a lender, and The Huntington National Bank, a national banking association, both individually as a lender and as administrative agent (the “Bank”) for itself and Harris (collectively, the “Lenders”).

 

PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS

 

A.                                    The Borrower, the Lenders and the Bank have heretofore entered into that certain Master Loan Agreement, dated as of April 23, 2010 (as amended by the First Amendment dated April 19, 2011, the “Master Loan Agreement”);

 

B.                                    The Borrower has asked the Lenders to make certain amendments to the Master Loan Agreement and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth in this Amendment.

 

Now, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth above, the terms and conditions contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

 

ARTICLE I

DEFINITIONS

 

Section 1.1.                                Use of Defined Terms. Unless otherwise defined or the context otherwise requires, terms for which meanings are provided in the Master Loan Agreement shall have such meanings when used in this Amendment.

 

ARTICLE II

AMENDMENTS

 

Section 2.1.                                Section 1.1 of the Master Loan Agreement shall be amended by amending and restating the definitions of Applicable Margin and Revolving Credit Commitment and adding a new definition of Second Amendment Effective Date each to read as follows:

 

“Applicable Margin” means 1.75%.

 

“Revolving Credit Commitment” means, as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender to make Revolving Loans in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender’s name on Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof, as the same may be reduced or modified at any time or from time to time

 

 

pursuant to the terms hereof.  The Borrower and the Lenders acknowledge and agree that the Revolving Credit Commitments of the Lenders aggregate $40,000,000 on the Second Amendment Effective Date.

 

“Second Amendment Effective Date” means March 1, 2013.

 

Section 2.2.                                Section 2.1 of the Master Loan Agreement shall be amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:

 

“Section 2.1. Revolving Loan Commitment. On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, each Lender severally agrees to disburse amounts (collectively, the “Revolving Loans”) from time to time during the period from the date of this Agreement up to and including April 1, 2013 in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed such Lender’s Revolving Credit Commitment. Each disbursement of Revolving Loans shall be made by the Lenders in accordance with their respective Revolver Percentages. Each Revolving Loan shall be made and maintained at each Lender’s lending office. Amounts borrowed by Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.1 may not be reborrowed, notwithstanding the defined term “Revolving Loans” or anything else contained in this Agreement.”

 

Section 2.3.                               Section 2.5 of the Master Loan Agreement shall be amended and restated in its entirety to read:

 

“Section 2.5. Scheduled Required Prepayments of the Revolving Loans. Until the Revolving Loans shall be paid in full, the Borrower shall apply to the prepayment of the Revolving Loans, without premium, the sum of $775,000 on the first day of each month beginning May 1, 2013 through and including April 1, 2015, and such principal amounts of the Revolving Loans, together with interest thereon to the prepayment dates, shall become due on such prepayment dates. The remaining outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Loans, together with any accrued and unpaid interest thereon, shall become due on the Credit Termination Date.”

 

Section 2.4.                             Section 5.1 of the Master Loan Agreement shall be amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:

 

“Section 5.1. The Borrower may from time to time prepay the Obligations at any time, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty.”

 

2

 

Section 2.5.                             Schedule l (Revolving Credit Commitments) to the Master Loan Agreement shall be amended and restated in its entirely to read as set forth in Schedule 1 hereto.

 

ARTICLE III

CONDITIONS PRECEDENT

 

Section 3.1.                     Effectiveness. This Amendment shall become effective as of the Second Amendment Effective Date upon the satisfaction of all of the following conditions precedent:

 

(a)                        The Borrower, the Guarantor, the Bank, and the Lenders shall have executed and delivered this Amendment.

 

(b)                        Legal matters incident to the execution and delivery of this Amendment shall be satisfactory to the Lenders and their counsel.

 

(c)                       The Borrower shall have borrowed Revolving Loans such that the aggregate outstanding balance of Revolving Loans is $40,000,000.

 

ARTICLE IV

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

 

Section 4.1.                                Ratification of and References to the Master Loan Agreement. Except for the amendments expressly set forth above, the Master Loan Agreement and each Related Document is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed in each and every respect. The Borrower hereby acknowledges and agrees that (i) the Liens created and provided for by the Collateral Documents continue to secure, among other things, the Obligations arising under the Master Loan Agreement as amended hereby and (ii) and the Collateral Documents and the rights and remedies of the Bank thereunder, the obligations of the Borrower thereunder, and the Liens created and provided for thereunder, remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected, impaired or discharged hereby. Nothing herein contained shall in any manner affect or impair the priority of the Liens and security interests created and provided for by the Collateral Documents as to the indebtedness which would be secured thereby prior to giving effect to this Amendment. Reference to this specific Amendment need not be made in the Master Loan Agreement, the Notes, or any other instrument or document executed in connection therewith, or in any certificate, letter or communication issued or made pursuant to or with respect to the Master Loan Agreement, any reference in any of such items to the Master Loan Agreement being sufficient to refer to the Master Loan Agreement as amended hereby.

 

Section 4.2.                                Headings. The various headings of this Amendment are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Amendment and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Amendment.

 

Section 4.3.                                Execution in Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single agreement.

 

3

 

Section 4.4.                                No Other Amendments. Except for the amendments expressly set forth above, the text of the Master Loan Agreement and the Related Documents shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect, and the Lenders and the Bank expressly reserve the right to require strict compliance with the terms of the Master Loan Agreement and the Related Documents.

 

Section 4.5.                                Costs and Expenses. The Lenders hereby agree and acknowledge that Borrower shall not be required to pay any costs or expenses of or incurred by the Lenders in connection with the negotiation, preparation, execution and delivery of this Amendment, including the fees and expenses of counsel for each Lender.

 

Section 4.6.                                Governing Law. THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.

 

ARTICLE V

DRAW REQUEST

 

The Borrower hereby requests a borrowing of Revolving Loans in the amount of $13,193,990.24 on April 1, 2013 (the “Advance”).  The Advance shall be disbursed into Account # 5800415597 at the Bank of America. The Borrowing Base Report is not required in connection with the Advance. The Borrower hereby represents and warrants that all of the conditions precedent to the making of the Advance have been satisfied and no Event of Default exists.

 

[SIGNATURE PAGE TO FOLLOW]

 

4

 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and delivered by their respective duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.

 

 
	

“BORROWER”

 
	

 

 
	

EP AVIATION, LLC

 
	

 

 
	

 

 
	

By
	

/s/ Michael K. Carr

 
	

 
	

Name
	

Michael K. Carr

 
	

 
	

Title
	

VP Tax & Assistant Treasurer

 

 

The undersigned, AAR Corp., heretofore executed and delivered to the Bank a Guaranty Agreement dated as of April 23, 2010 (the “Guaranty Agreement”). The undersigned hereby consents to the Second Amendment to the Master Loan Agreement as set forth above and confirms that the Guaranty Agreement and all obligations of the undersigned thereunder, remains in full force and effect and, without limiting the foregoing, the undersigned acknowledges and agrees that the Revolving Loans payable to each of the Lenders and all other amounts payable to each of the Lenders under the Master Loan Agreement and the Related Documents constitutes indebtedness which is guarantied by the undersigned under the Guaranty Agreement. The undersigned further agrees that the consent of the undersigned to any further amendments to the Master Loan Agreement shall not be required as a result of this consent having been obtained. The undersigned acknowledges that the Bank and each of the Lenders are relying on the assurances provided herein in entering into the Amendment set forth above.

 

 
	

“GUARANTOR”

 
	

 

 
	

AAR CORP.

 
	

 

 
	

 

 
	

By
	

/s/ Michael K. Carr

 
	

 
	

Name
	

Michael K. Carr

 
	

 
	

Title
	

VP Tax & Assistant Treasurer

 

[Second Amendment to Master Loan Agreement]

 

S-1

 

 
	

THE HUNTINGTON NATIONAL BANK, in its individual capacity as a Lender and as the Band

 
	

 

 
	

 

 
	

By
	

/s/ Kim J. Trombetta

 
	

 
	

Name
	

Kim J. Trombetta

 
	

 
	

Title
	

Sr. Vice President
Equipment Finance Division

 
	

 

 
	

BMO HARRIS BANK N.A., as a Lender

 
	

 

 
	

 

 
	

By
	

/s/ George M. Dluhy

 
	

 
	

Name
	

George M. Dluhy

 
	

 
	

Title
	

Director

 

[Second Amendment to Master Loan Agreement]

 

S-2

.  In addition to terms expressly defined elsewhere in this Agreement, the following terms used in this Agreement shall have the following respective meanings:
 

“AAR” means AAR CORP., a Delaware corporation.

 

“Aggregate Facility” means $65,000,000.00.

 

“Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitment”  See Section 2.1.

 

“Agreed Value” means:

 
(a)           with respect to any Aircraft acquired on or after the Closing Date for which an appraisal has been obtained, the lesser of Borrower’s cost or the Appraised Value of such Aircraft after taking into account the anticipated upgrades and/or overhauls to be performed on such Aircraft within 180 days of the acquisition of such Aircraft; AND
 
(b)           with respect to any Aircraft acquired by the Borrower prior to the Closing Date, the Appraised Value of such Aircraft as set forth on Schedule 1.1A.
 

Except as provided above, after an Aircraft is added to the Borrowing Base and so long as it remains in the Borrowing Base, the Agreed Value of that Aircraft shall not change except on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank in its sole discretion.

 

1

 

“Aircraft” means (i) any aircraft registered under the laws of the United States, or (ii) any aircraft registered in a country other than the United States that has ratified and adopted the Cape Town Convention; (iii) all engines, propellers, avionics, accessories, components, of the foregoing owned by Borrower, and (iv) all substitutions, products, and proceeds of the foregoing.

 

“Amortized Value” shall mean the Agreed Value of any Eligible Aircraft as reduced through amortization on a straight line basis over seven (7) years (the “amortization period”) commencing as follows:

 
(a)           with respect to any Eligible Aircraft acquired prior to the Closing Date, the amortization period shall commence on the Closing Date; and
 
(b)           with respect to any Eligible Aircraft acquired on or after the date hereof, the amortization period shall commence on the date such Eligible Aircraft is purchased by the Borrower.
 

“Applicable Interest Rate” means the LIBOR Rate plus the Applicable Margin, provided, however, that after the Credit Termination Date, the Applicable Interest Rate shall be equal to the Default Rate.  Subject to any maximum or minimum interest rate limitations specified herein or by applicable laws, the Applicable Interest Rate shall change automatically without notice to the Borrower on the first LIBOR Rate Bank Day of each calendar month to reflect any change in the LIBOR Rate.

 

“Applicable Margin” means 3.25%.

 

“Appraised Value” means value based upon a fair market value appraisal conducted in a manner satisfactory to the Bank in its sole discretion not more than 180 days immediately prior to the date such Aircraft is added to the Borrowing Base or, with respect to Aircraft added to the Borrowing Base as of the Closing Date, as set forth on Exhibit C.  Bank acknowledges and agrees that there may not be a developed market for one or more of the types of Aircraft to be purchased by the Borrower, and therefore agrees to consider, in good faith, appraisals and comparable sales information concerning such Aircraft provided by Borrower that rely on global market data where no reliable U.S. market exists for such Aircraft.

 

“Authorized Officer” means any officer of the Borrower duly authorized by action of the Borrower’s board of directors to act on Borrower’s behalf in connection with the Loans.

 

“Bank Parties” see Section 11.7.

 

“Borrower” see introductory paragraph.

 

“Borrowing Base” means the aggregate of 75% of the Amortized Value of each Eligible Aircraft for which an appraisal has been received by the Bank.

 

“Borrowing Base Report” see Section 8.1(f).

 

2

 

“Business Day” means any day of the year other than Saturdays and Sundays on which banks located in Grand Rapids, Michigan are open for the transaction of business.

 

“Cape Town Convention”  means the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment and its related protocol, the Protocol to Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment on Matters Specific to Aircraft Equipment.

 

“Capital Expenditures” means all expenditures which, in accordance with GAAP, would be required to be capitalized and shown on the Consolidated balance sheet of the Company, including expenditures in respect of Capital Leases, but excluding expenditures made in connection with the replacement, substitution or restoration of assets to the extent financed (a) from insurance proceeds (or other similar recoveries) paid on account of the loss of or damage to the assets being replaced or restored or (b) with awards of compensation arising from the taking by eminent domain or condemnation of the assets being replaced.

 

“Capital Lease” means, with respect to any Person, any lease of (or other agreement conveying the right to use) any real or personal property by such Person that, in conformity with GAAP, is accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of such Person.

 

“Capital Stock” shall mean (a) in the case of a corporation, capital stock and (b) in the case of a limited liability company, membership interests.

 

“Cash Equivalents” means (a) securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof (provided that the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged in support thereof) having maturities of not more than twelve (12) months from the date of acquisition, (b) U.S. dollar denominated time deposits and certificate of deposit of (i) the Bank, (ii) any domestic commercial bank of recognized standing having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000 or (iii) any bank whose short-term commercial paper rating from S&P is at least A-1 or the equivalent thereof or from Moody’s is at least P-1 or the equivalent thereof (any such bank being an “Approved Lender”), in each case with maturities of not more than 364 days form the date of acquisition, (c) commercial paper and variable or fixed rate notes issued by any Approved Lender (or by the parent company thereof) or any variable or fixed rate notes issued by, or guaranteed by, any domestic corporation rated A-1 (or the equivalent thereof) or better by S&P or P-1 (or the equivalent thereof) or better by Moody’s and maturing within six months of the date of acquisition, (d) repurchase agreements with a bank or trust company (including Lender) or recognized securities dealer having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000 for direct obligations issued by or fully guaranteed by the United States of America in which the owner shall have a perfected first priority security interest (subject to no other Liens) and having, on the date of purchase thereof, a fair market value of at least 100% of the amount of the repurchase obligations, (e) obligations of any State of the United States or any political subdivision thereof, the interest with respect to which is exempt from federal income taxation under Section 103 of the Code, having a long term rate of at least Aa-3 or AA- by Moody’s or S&P, respectively, (f) investments in municipal auction preferred stock (i) rated AAA or the equivalent thereof) or better by S&P or Aaa (or the equivalent thereof) or better by Moody’s and (ii) with dividends that reset at least once every 365 days and (g) investments, classified in accordance with GAAP as current assets, in money market investment programs registered under the Investment

 

3

 

Company Act of 1940, as amended, which are administered by reputable financial institutions having capital of at least $100,000,000 and the portfolios of which are limited to investments of the character described in the foregoing subdivisions (a) through (f).

 

“Closing Date” means April 23, 2010 or such later date that all of the conditions to disbursement set forth in Section 10 have been satisfied, and the initial disbursement of the Loan is made to Borrower.

 

“Collateral” means all Aircraft pledged now or hereafter as security for the Loans, including as of the Closing Date but not limited to those Aircraft described on the attached Exhibit C.

 

“Collateral Documents” means, collectively, any and all documents and instruments pursuant to which a Lien is granted to the Bank (or to any agent, trustee, or other party acting on the Bank’s behalf) as security for the Loan or as security for any Guaranty, as such documents and instruments may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time with the Bank’s advance written consent.

 

“Computation Period” means each period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of AAR ending on the last day of a fiscal quarter.

 

“Consolidated” means the financial statements of AAR and each Person controlled directly or indirectly by AAR which has been consolidated in accordance with GAAP.

 

“Consolidated Net Income” means, with respect to the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for any period, the net income (or loss) of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for such period (taken as a cumulative whole), as determined in accordance with GAAP, after eliminating all offsetting debits and credits between the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries and all other items required to be eliminated in the course of the preparation of Consolidated financial statements of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP.

 

“Consolidated Rentals” means, for any Computation Period for the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, the aggregate fixed amounts payable by the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, determined on a Consolidated basis, under Operating Leases.

 

“Consolidating” means the separate financial statements of AAR and each Person controlled directly or indirectly by AAR.

 

“Contingent Liability” means, with respect to any Person, any obligation (except the endorsement in the ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection) of such Person guaranteeing or in effect guaranteeing any Debt, dividend or other obligation of any other Person in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including (without limitation) obligations incurred through an agreement, contingent or otherwise, by such Person: (a) to purchase such Debt or obligation or any property constituting security therefor; (b) to advance or supply funds (i) for the purchase or payment of such Debt or obligation, or (ii) to maintain any working capital or other balance sheet condition or any income statement condition of any other Person or otherwise to advance or make available funds for the purchase or payment of such Debt or obligation; (c) to lease properties or to purchase properties or services primarily

 

4

 

for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Debt or obligation of the ability of any other Person to make payment of the Debt or obligation; or (d) otherwise to assure the owner of such Debt or obligation against loss in respect thereof.  In any computation of the Debt or other liabilities of the obligor under any Contingent Liability, the Debt or other obligations that are the subject of such Contingent Liability shall be assumed to be direct obligations of such obligor.

 

“Covenant Compliance Certificate” - see Section 8.1(c) and Exhibit B.

 

“Credit Termination Date” means the earlier of (i) April 23, 2015; or (ii) such other date after the occurrence of an Event of Default as provided in Section 10.2.

 

“Debt” of any Person means, without duplication, (a) its liabilities for borrowed money determined in accordance with GAAP; (b) its liabilities for the deferred purchase price of property acquired by such Person (excluding accounts payable and other accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business but including, without limitation, all liabilities created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to any such property); (c) its Capital Lease obligations; (d) all liabilities for borrowed money (other than Nonrecourse Debt) secured by any Lien with respect to any property owned by such Person (whether or not it has assumed or otherwise become liable for such liabilities); (e) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, with respect to the face amount of all letters of credit (whether or not drawn), bankers’ acceptances and similar obligations issued for the account of such Person (including the Letters of Credit under the Guarantor Credit Agreement); (f) all Hedging Obligations of such Person; and (g) any Contingent Liability of such Person with respect to liabilities of a type described in any of clauses (a) through (f) hereof.  Debt of any Person shall include all obligations of such Person of the character described in clauses (a) through (g) to the extent such Person remains legally liable in respect thereof notwithstanding that any such obligation is deemed to be extinguished under GAAP.  For further certainty, obligations of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as lessee in respect of operating leases (including “leveraged leases” and “synthetic leases” that are accounted for as operating leases) under GAAP shall not constitute “Debt” and obligations of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries in respect of intercompany expenses, billings and other charges between and among the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries consistent with their historical business practices shall not constitute “Debt”.

 

“Default Rate” means the rate of interest per annum which is 250 basis points in excess of the Applicable Interest Rate on the Credit Termination Date.

 

“Dollar(s)” and the sign “$” means lawful money of the United States of America.

 

“EBITDA” means, for any period Consolidated Net Income for such period plus, to the extent deducted in determining such Consolidated Net Income, Interest Expense, income and franchise tax expense, depreciation and amortization losses (less gains) from asset dispositions, extraordinary losses (less extraordinary gains), transaction costs in an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Borrower and Aviation Worldwide Services, L.L.C., this Agreement and the 2010 Credit Agreement, and transaction costs incurred in connection with the issuance by the Company of high-yield debt or equity, in each case, for such period.  EBITDA shall be calculated on a pro forma basis to give

 

5

 

effect to any acquisition consummated at any time on or after the first day of a Computation Period, as if such acquisition had been consummated on the first day of such Computation Period.

 

“EBITDAR” means, for any period, EBITDA plus, to the extent deducted from Consolidated Net Income when determining EBITDA, Consolidated Rentals for such period.

 

“Eligible Aircraft” means any Aircraft (i) owned by the Borrower, (ii) in which the Bank has a perfected, first priority security interest, (iii) covered by insurance as required by this Agreement; (iv) in good order and repair and in airworthy condition in accordance with the requirements of the manufacturer’s operation and maintenance manuals and any applicable laws or regulations pertaining to the operation and maintenance of the Aircraft (Aircraft whose damage, loss or needed repair is adequately covered by insurance as required by this Agreement shall be deemed in good order and repair and in airworthy condition), (v) is not subject to or encumbered by any Lien other than Permitted Liens, (vi) for which an Agreed Value shall been determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, (vii) is otherwise in material compliance with all other conditions and requirements of this Agreement, and (viii) is designated by the Borrower as part of the Borrowing Base.

 

“Environmental Claims” see Section 8.13(c).

 

“Environmental Laws” means any and all federal, state or local environmental or health and safety related laws, regulations, rules, ordinances, orders or directives.

 

“EP Aviation” means EP Aviation, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.

 

“Event of Default” means any of the events described in Section 10.1.

 

“Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio” means, for any Computation Period, the ratio of (a) the total for such period of EBITDAR for the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries minus the sum of income taxes paid in cash by the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries and all Capital Expenditures incurred by the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries to (b) the sum for such period of (i) cash Interest Expense paid by the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, plus (ii) required payments of principal of Funded Debt for the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries (excluding (A) the Revolving Loans, as defined in the Guarantor Credit Agreement, (B) revolving loans under the 2010 Credit Agreement, (C) required principal payments under the Company’s notes due May 15, 2011, the aggregate initial principal amount of which is $42,000,000, and (D) the Loans), plus (iii) Consolidated Rentals paid by the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, plus (iv) Restricted Payments paid by the Guarantor during such Computation Period.

 

“Funded Debt” means, as to any Person, all Debt of such Person that matures more than one year from the date of its creation (or is renewable or extendible, at the option of such Person, to a date more than one year from such date).

 

“GAAP” means the generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied with such changes thereto as (i) shall be consistent with the then effective principles promulgated or adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and its predecessors and successors and

 

6

 

(ii) shall be concurred in by the independent certified public accountants of recognized standing certifying any financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.

 

“General Intangibles” means “general intangibles” as such term is defined in the UCC, including, without limitation, rights to the payment of money (other than Accounts), trademarks, trade names, service marks, designs, logos, and the goodwill of the business relating thereto, copyrights, copyright registrations, patents, patent applications, and contracts, licenses and franchises (except in the case of licenses and franchises in respect of which the Borrower is the licensee or franchisee if the agreement in respect of such license or franchise prohibits by its terms any assignment or grant of a security interest), limited and general partnership interests and joint venture interests, distributions on certificated securities (as defined in the UCC) and uncertificated securities (as defined in the UCC), computer programs and other computer Software, tape drives, utilities and application programs, inventions, designs, trade secrets, goodwill, proprietary rights, customer lists, supplier contracts, sale orders, correspondence, advertising materials, federal and state income tax refunds, payments due in connection with any confiscation, condemnation, seizure or forfeiture of any property, reversionary interests in pension and profit-sharing plans and reversionary, beneficial and residual interests in trusts, credits with and other claims against any Person, together with any collateral for any of the foregoing and the rights under any security agreement granting a security interest in such collateral.

 

“Guarantor” means AAR.

 

“Guarantor Credit Agreement” means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of August 31, 2006, among the Guarantor, the Lenders (as defined therein) and Bank of America, N.A., as agent, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified, from time to time, and any replacement or refinancing thereof from time to time.

 

“Guaranty” means the Guaranty Agreement, of even date herewith, executed by the Guarantor in favor of the Bank with respect to any or all of the Obligations.

 

“Hazardous Material” means any hazardous substance or any pollutant or contaminant defined as such in (or for purposes of) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, any so called “Superfund” or “Superlien” law, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or any other federal, state or local statute, law, ordinance, code, rule, regulation, order or decree regulating, relating to or imposing liability or standards on conduct concerning any hazardous, toxic or dangerous waste, substance or material, as now or at any time hereafter in effect; asbestos or any substance or compound containing asbestos; polychlorinated biphenyls or any substance or compound containing any polychlorinated biphenyl; and any other hazardous, toxic or dangerous waste, substance or material.

 

“Hedging Agreement” means any interest rate, currency or commodity swap agreement, cap agreement or collar agreement, and any other agreement or arrangement designed to protect a Person against fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity prices.

 

7

 

“Hedging Obligation” means, with respect to any Person, any liability of such Person under any Hedging Agreement.

 

“Indemnified Liabilities” see Section 11.7.

 

“Interest Expense” means for any period the Consolidated net interest expense of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for such period (including all imputed interest on Capital Leases).

 

“LIBOR Rate” means the rate obtained by dividing: (1) the actual or estimated per annum rate, or the arithmetic mean of the per annum rates, of interest for deposits in U.S. dollars for the related LIBOR Rate Interest Period (as hereinafter defined), as determined by Bank in its discretion based upon reference to information which appears on page LIBOR01, captioned British Bankers Assoc. Interest Settlement Rates, of the Reuters America Network, a service of Reuters America Inc. (or such other page that may replace that page on that service for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates; or, if such service ceases to be available or ceases to be used by Bank, such other reasonably comparable money rate service as Bank may select) or upon information obtained from any other reasonable procedure, as of two LIBOR Rate Bank Days prior to the first day of a LIBOR Rate Interest Period; by (2) an amount equal to one minus the stated maximum rate (expressed as a decimal), if any, of all reserve requirements (including, without limitation, any marginal emergency, supplemental, special or other reserves) that is specified on the first day of each LIBOR Rate Interest Period by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor agency thereto) for determining the maximum reserve requirement with respect to eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as “Eurocurrency liabilities” in Regulation D of such Board) maintained by a member bank of the such System, or any other regulations of any governmental authority having jurisdiction with respect thereto as conclusively determined by the Bank.

 

“LIBOR Rate Bank Day” means any day other than a Saturday or a Sunday on which banks are open for business in Grand Rapids, Michigan and on which banks in London, England settle payments.

 

“LIBOR Rate Interest Period” means one (1) month, provided that (i) if any LIBOR Rate Interest Period would otherwise expire on a day which is not a LIBOR Rate Bank Day, the LIBOR Rate Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding LIBOR Rate Bank Day (provided, however, that if such next succeeding LIBOR Rate Bank Day occurs in the following calendar month, then the LIBOR Rate Interest Period shall expire on the immediately preceding LIBOR Rate Bank Day.)

 

“Lien” means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset.

 

“Loans” means collectively all Revolving Loans, and the term “Loan” means any such Revolving Loan.

 

“Margin Stock” has the meaning given to such term in Regulation U.

 

8

 

“Material Adverse Effect” means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, operations, property or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Borrower or the Guarantor to perform its respective material obligations, when such obligations are required to be performed, under this Agreement, any of the Notes or any of the other Related Documents or the material rights or remedies of Bank thereunder or hereunder.

 

“Nonrecourse Debt” means any Debt of any Person which, by the terms thereof, does not represent a claim against any general assets or revenues of such Person other than the specific assets that are subject to a Lien securing such Debt.

 

“Note” shall mean collectively and individually the Revolving Loan Notes.

 

“Obligations” mean any individual and the aggregate of all obligations, liabilities and indebtedness of the Borrower to the Bank, howsoever created, arising or evidenced, whether joint or several, direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, now or hereafter existing or arising, or due or to become due under this Agreement, the Notes or under any of the Related Documents, whether by operation of law or otherwise, and any refinancings, substitutions, extensions, renewals, replacements and modifications for or of any or all of the foregoing.

 

“Operating Lease” means any lease of (or other agreement conveying the right to use) any real or personal property by the Guarantor or any Subsidiary, as lessee, other than any Capital Lease.

 

“Permitted Liens” see Section 8.8 and Schedule 1.1.

 

“Person” means an individual or a corporation, partnership, trust, incorporated or unincorporated association, joint venture, joint stock company, limited liability company, government (or any agency or political subdivision thereof) or other entity of any kind.

 

“Presidential” means Presidential Airways, Inc., a Florida corporation.

 

“Prime Commercial Rate” means the rate established by Bank from time to time based on its consideration of economic, money market, business and competitive factors, and it is not necessarily the Bank’s most favored rate.  Subject to any maximum or minimum interest rate limitation specified herein or by applicable law, any variable rate of interest on the Loans based upon the Prime Commercial Rate shall change automatically without notice to the Borrower immediately with each change in the Prime Commercial Rate.

 

“Proceeds” means “proceeds” as such term is defined in the UCC.

 

“Recovery Claim” - See Section 11.9.

 

“Regulation U” means Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and any successor rule or regulation of similar import as in effect from time to time.

 

9

 

“Related Documents” means, collectively, the Notes, the Collateral Documents, the Guaranty and all other documents, instruments and agreements executed by the Borrower, or the Guarantor pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement, or any amendment of this Agreement.

 

“Restricted Payment” means any payment in connection with (a) any dividend payment in cash or otherwise to any holders of the Capital Stock of the Guarantor, and (b) any purchase or redemption of any of the Capital Stock of the Guarantor.

 

“Revolving Loans”  See Section 2.1.

 

“Revolving Loan Note”  See Section 3.1.

 

“Security Agreement” means any aircraft security agreement by which an Aircraft is pledged to the Bank as collateral for any Loan made pursuant to this Agreement and any security agreement by which the assets of the Borrower or the Guarantor are pledged to the Bank as collateral for any Loan made pursuant to this Agreement.

 

“Significant Subsidiary” means at any time any Subsidiary of the Guarantor which accounts for more than (i) 10% of the Consolidated assets of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, or (ii) 10% of the Consolidated revenue of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries.

 

“Software” means software as defined by the UCC.

 

“Subsidiary” means a Person of which the Borrower and/or its other Subsidiaries own, directly or indirectly, such number of outstanding shares as have more than 50% of the ordinary voting power for the election of such corporation’s directors.

 

“2010 Credit Agreement” means a Credit Agreement, to be entered into by and among the Guarantor, the lenders party thereto, and Bank of America, as Administrative Agent, providing for a $75,000,000 revolving credit facility, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.

 

“UCC” and “Uniform Commercial Code” mean the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time in the State of Michigan; provided, that if by reason of mandatory provisions of law, the perfection or the effect of perfection or non-perfection of the security interest or Lien in any Collateral is governed by the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in a jurisdiction other than Michigan, “UCC” and “Uniform Commercial Code” means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in such other jurisdiction for purposes of the provisions hereof relating to such perfection or effect of perfection or non-perfection.

 
Section 1.2.                                   Construction.
 
(a)                                  The words “hereof,” “herein,” and “hereunder,” and other words of a similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to the individual Sections in which such terms are used.

 

10

 
(b)                                 References to sections and other subdivisions of this Agreement are to the designated Sections and other subdivisions of this Agreement as originally executed.
 
(c)                                  The headings of sections and other captions are for convenience only and shall not define or limit the provisions hereof.
 
(d)                                 Where the context so requires, words used in singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and words of one gender shall include all other genders.

 
ARTICLE II

 
THE LOANS

 
Section 2.1.                                   Revolving Loan Commitment.  On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Bank agrees to disburse amounts (collectively, the “Revolving Loans”) from time to time during the period from the date of this Agreement up to but not including the Credit Termination Date in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed , at any time outstanding, the Aggregate Facility (the “Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitment”).  The Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitment shall not, at any time, exceed the lesser of the Aggregate Facility or the Borrowing Base.  Each Revolving Loan shall be made and maintained at the Bank’s Lending Office.  Subject to the limitations set forth above, and the terms and conditions of this Agreement, amounts borrowed and repaid by Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.1 may be reborrowed.

 
Section 2.2.                                   Disbursement Procedures For All Loans.  The Borrower shall give the Bank notice (in writing) of its request for any Loan not later than 10:00 a.m. (Grand Rapids, Michigan time) on the Business Day prior to the date such Loan is to be disbursed.  The notice shall be in a form provided by the Bank, and shall specify (a) the date of the Loan, (b) the amount of the Loan, (c) the account of the Borrower, the Guarantor or any other Subsidiary of the Guarantor into which the Loan is to be disbursed, (d) the borrowing date (which shall be a Business Day) and (e) shall include a current Borrowing Base Report.  Each request for a Loan shall automatically constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that, as of the date of the disbursement, all conditions precedent to the making of such advance have been satisfied, and that no Event of Default exists.  Proceeds of any Loan shall, if required by the Bank, be disbursed to an escrow agent acceptable to the Bank, with instructions to first pay all liens and adverse interests in the Aircraft to be acquired, and then pay the balance to Borrower, or in such other manner acceptable to Borrower and the escrow agent.  Provided that all conditions precedent to disbursement are satisfied, and provided that the requested Loan can be made in accordance with the limitations contained in this Agreement, the Bank shall disburse the requested Loan in immediately available funds on the borrowing date.
 
Section 2.3.                                   Deposits to Borrower’s Account.  Absent direction to the contrary from the Borrower, the Bank shall have the right to deposit any Loan disbursement in the Borrower’s cash concentration account maintained at Bank of America, N.A. in the Borrower’s name.

 

11

 
Section 2.4.                                   Collateral and Guaranties.  The Obligations shall be secured as follows:
 
(a)                                  Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.4 above, all Obligations shall be secured by (i) a first priority security interest in all Aircraft now owned or hereinafter acquired by the Borrower, and included in the Borrowing Base, and (ii) a first priority security interest in every lease agreement pursuant to which any Aircraft included in the Borrowing Base is leased to any third party, including Presidential or any other Subsidiary of the Guarantor.  Borrower shall execute and deliver to the Bank all documents, certificates and instruments to create, perfect and establish the priority of any security interest required by the Bank pursuant to this paragraph.  For purposes of this Section 2.4, all Aircraft listed on the attached Exhibit C shall be pledged as Collateral for the Obligations as of the Closing Date.
 
(b)                                 The Loans shall be secured by (i) an unlimited, unsecured parent guaranty issued by AAR to the Bank, and the Guaranty shall be in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and secure not less than 100% of the outstanding principal balance of the Loans at any time.
 
(c)                                  At the Borrower’s request, the Bank shall release its security interest in any Aircraft and Collateral related to such Aircraft, including without limitation, its security interest in any lease payments and accounts receivable derived from such Aircraft, in connection with any financing or refinancing of such Aircraft with credit extended by another financial institution separate and independent from this Agreement, any sale of such Aircraft or any other removal of such Aircraft from the Borrowing Base, upon Bank’s receipt of prepayment of the Loans to the extent required under Section 2.5 immediately after giving effect to such removal.  The Bank shall execute and deliver such documents reasonably required by the Borrower to affect the release required by this paragraph.
 
Section 2.5.                                   Overadvance.  If, at any time, the total outstanding principal balance of the Revolving Loans exceeds any applicable limitation set forth in this Agreement (an “Overadvance”), Borrower shall prepay the excess within two (2) Business Days of written notification from Bank.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Borrower shall have the right to request the Bank to extend Revolving Loans to the Borrower that will result in an Overadvance provided, however, that Borrower pledges additional Collateral sufficient in the Bank’s sole discretion, exercised in good faith, to adequately secure the excess, or such excess is guaranteed by AAR.  The Bank may grant such request in its sole discretion.

 
ARTICLE III

 
THE NOTES
 
Section 3.1.                                   The Revolving Loan Note.  All Revolving Loans made by the Bank under this Agreement shall be evidenced by a single promissory note (herein, as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and together with any renewals

 

12

 
thereof or exchanges or substitutions therefore, called the “Revolving Loan Note”) substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A with appropriate insertions, payable to the order of the Bank.  The Revolving Loan Note shall represent the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Revolving Loans owing to the Bank.  The date and amount of each Revolving Loan made by the Bank, and of each repayment of principal thereon received by the Bank shall be recorded by such Bank in its records or, at its option, on a schedule attached to the Revolving Loan Note.  The aggregate unpaid principal amount so recorded shall be rebuttable presumptive evidence of the principal amount owing and unpaid on the Revolving Loan Note.  The failure so to record any such amount or any error in so recording any such amount, however, shall not limit or otherwise affect the Borrower’s obligations hereunder or under the Revolving Loan Note to repay the principal amount of the Revolving Loans together with all interest accruing thereon.

 
ARTICLE IV

 
INTEREST AND FEES
 
Section 4.1.                                   Interest Rate.  The Borrower hereby promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan commencing on the date of disbursement of such Loan until the Loan is paid in full at the Applicable Interest Rate; provided, however, that upon the occurrence of an Event of Default and Borrower’s failure to cure such Event of Default prior to the expiration of any applicable cure period, the unpaid principal amount of the Loan shall bear interest thereafter at a rate per annum equal to the Default Rate.
 
Section 4.2.                                   Computation of Interest.  Interest on the Loan shall be computed for the actual number of days elapsed on the basis of a 360 day year and actual days elapsed.  Subject to any maximum or minimum interest rate limitations specified herein or by applicable laws, the Applicable Interest Rate shall change automatically without notice to the Borrower on the first day of each LIBOR Rate Interest Period but not more often than each month to reflect any change in the LIBOR Rate.  Should any interest or other charges paid or payable by the Borrower or any party liable for the payment of a Loan in connection with this Agreement or any Related Document result in the computation or earning of interest in excess of the maximum allowed by applicable law, then any and all such excess shall be and the same is hereby waived by the Bank, and any and all such excess paid shall be automatically credited against and in reduction of the outstanding principal balance of the Loan, and the portion of said excess paid which exceeds the outstanding balance of the Loan shall be paid by the Bank to the person legally entitled thereto.
 
Section 4.3.                                   Suspension of LIBOR Rate.  In the event that Bank reasonably determines that by reason of (1) any change arising after the date of this Agreement affecting the interbank Eurocurrency market or affecting the position of the Bank with respect to such market, adequate and fair means do not exist for ascertaining the applicable interest rates by reference to which the LIBOR Rate then being determined is to be fixed, (2) any change arising after the date of this Agreement in any applicable law or governmental rule, regulation or order (or any interpretation thereof, including the introduction of any new law or governmental rule, regulation or order), or (3) any other circumstance affecting the Bank or the interbank market (such as, but not limited to, official reserve requirements required by Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), the LIBOR Rate plus the Applicable Margin shall

 

13

 
not represent the effective pricing to the Bank of accruing interest hereunder based upon the LIBOR Rate, then, and in any such event, the accruing of interest hereunder based upon the LIBOR Rate shall be suspended until Bank shall notify the Borrower that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.  In such case, beginning on the date of such suspension interest shall accrue hereunder at a variable rate of interest per annum, which shall change in the manner set forth below, equal to .26 percentage points in excess of the Prime Commercial Rate.
 
Section 4.4.                                   LIBOR Rate Unlawful.  In the event that on any date Bank shall have reasonably determined that accruing interest hereunder based upon the LIBOR Rate has become unlawful by compliance by the Bank in good faith with any law, governmental rule, regulation or order, then, and in any such event, the Bank shall promptly give notice thereof to the Borrower.  In such case, accruing interest hereunder based upon the LIBOR Rate shall be terminated and the Borrower shall, at the earlier of the end of each LIBOR Rate Interest Period then in effect or when required by law, repay the advances based upon the LIBOR Rate, together with all interest accrued thereon.  In such case, when required by law, interest shall accrue hereunder at a variable rate of interest per annum, which shall change in the manner set forth below, equal to .26 percentage points in excess of the Prime Commercial Rate.
 
Section 4.5.                                   Changes in Law.  If, due to (1) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation, (2) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other public authority (whether or not having the force of law), or (3) the failure of the Borrower to repay any advance when required by the terms of this Agreement, there shall be any loss or increase in the cost to the Bank of accruing interest hereunder based upon the LIBOR Rate, then the Borrower agrees that the Borrower shall, from time to time, upon demand by the Bank, pay to the Bank additional amounts sufficient to compensate the Bank for such loss or increased cost.
 
Section 4.6.                                   Mitigation.  If the Bank becomes entitled to claim any additional amounts pursuant to Section 4.5, it shall promptly furnish to Borrower a certificate setting forth in reasonable detail the calculation of such amounts, which certificate shall be conclusive evidence, absent manifest error, of the correctness of such amounts.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Borrower shall not be required to compensate the Bank pursuant to this Section 4 for any amounts incurred more than six months prior to the date that the Bank submits such certificate to Borrower.  Subject to the terms of the immediately preceding sentence, the obligations of Borrower pursuant to this Section shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Loans and Notes and all other amounts payable hereunder.  The Bank agrees that, upon the occurrence of an event or existence of a condition that would entitle it to receive payments under Section 4.5, it will, if requested by the Borrower, to the extent not inconsistent with any applicable legal or regulatory restrictions, use reasonable efforts (a) to make, fund or maintain the interest in its Loans through another lending office, or (b) to take such other reasonable measures, if as a result thereof the additional amounts that would otherwise be required to be paid to the Bank pursuant to this Section would be reduced and if the making, funding or maintaining of its interest in the Loans through such other lending office or in accordance with such other measures, as the case may be, would not, in the good faith judgment of the Bank, result in an economic, legal or regulatory disadvantage or adverse tax consequences to the Bank.

 

14

 
Section 4.7.                                Fees and Expenses.  The Borrower shall be obligated to pay the following fees and expenses:
 
(a)                                  Commitment Fee.  A commitment fee in the amount of $325,000, shall be due and payable at closing.
 
(b)                                 Out-of-Pocket Expenses.  All out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Bank incurred in the course of its due diligence and documentation of the Loans, including, without limitation all attorney’s fees, filing fees, title insurance, and appraisal fees, provided that such fees and expenses shall not exceed (i) $35,000 with respect to appraisal fees, and (ii) $80,000 with respect to all other out-of-pocket fees and expenses.
 
ARTICLE V
 
PREPAYMENTS
 
Section 5.1.                                The Borrower may from time to time prepay the Obligations at any time, in whole or in part.  If a prepayment is made with the proceeds from the sale of Aircraft no longer needed by Borrower for its operations or is a casualty loss of any Aircraft, such prepayment may be made without premium or penalty.  In connection with any other prepayment, Borrower shall pay Bank a pre-payment penalty equal to (a) 50 basis points on the amount of Obligations prepaid during the first 36 months of the term of this Agreement, and (b) 25 basis points on the amount of any Obligations prepaid thereafter.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, during any period of time while interest is accruing hereunder based upon the LIBOR Rate Borrower may not prepay any portion of the outstanding principal balance prior to the expiration of the then current LIBOR Rate Interest Period.
 

ARTICLE VI

 
MAKING OF PAYMENTS
 
Section 6.1.                                Making of Payments.
 
(a)                                  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) below, all payments payable by the Borrower to the Bank with respect to the Loans (including, without limitation, principal, interest, fees and expenses) shall be made by wire transfer to the Bank at 105 East 4th Street (CN01), Cincinnati, OH 45202, not later than 3:00 p.m. (Grand Rapids, Michigan time) on the date due, in accordance with wire instructions provided by the Bank to the Borrower after the date of this Agreement.  Payments received after that hour shall be deemed to have been received by the Bank on the next following Business Day.  Multiple payments, including without limitation fees, due at the same time may be paid by way of a single wire transfer.
 
(b)                                 For purposes of this Agreement, all payments and Loan disbursements shall be made in the form of U.S. currency unless otherwise agreed in writing by the parties.

 

15

 
Section 6.2.                                Late Payments.  If a regularly scheduled payment is ten (10) days or more late, the Borrower will be charged five percent (5%) of the payment or $25.00, whichever is greater, but such amount shall become due only if such regularly scheduled payment remains unpaid for three (3) Business Days after Borrower has received notice from Bank of the expiration of such 10-day period.  Said charge shall be in addition for any amounts due as interest at the Default Rate.  Nothing in this Section shall be deemed to postpone the date on which a payment is due or to allow the Borrower any period of grace within which to make any payment.
 
ARTICLE VII
 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
 

To induce the Bank to enter into this Agreement and to make the Loans hereunder, the Borrower represents and warrants to the Bank that, as of the date hereof and on the date of disbursement of each Loan:

 
Section 7.1.                                Entity Organization.  Borrower is a limited liability company, duly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and is duly qualified and in good standing as a limited liability company authorized to do business in each jurisdiction where such qualification is required because of the nature of its activities or properties and where a failure to so qualify would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on its business, operations, assets or condition, financial or otherwise.
 
Section 7.2.                                Authorization; No Conflict.  The Borrower’s execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each of the Related Documents to which it is a party and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and each of the Related Documents are within the Borrower’s entity powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary entity action, require no material governmental, regulatory or other approval which will not be obtained on or prior to the Closing Date, and do not and will not contravene or conflict with any provision of (i) applicable law, (ii) any judgment, decree or order binding on the Borrower or any of its properties, or (iii) the Borrower’s organizational documents, and will not contravene or conflict with, or cause any Lien to arise under, any provision of any agreement or instrument binding upon the Borrower or upon any property of the Borrower.
 
Section 7.3.                                Validity and Binding Nature.  This Agreement and each of the Related Documents to which the Borrower is a party is (or, when duly executed and delivered, will be) the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforceability of agreements and rights granted thereunder generally, and subject to general principles of equity.
 
Section 7.4.                                Financial Statements.  All financial statements for AAR and its Subsidiaries available on line via Edgar have been or will be prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied (except as disclosed therein) and do or will present fairly the financial condition of the Persons covered thereby as at the dates thereof and the results of their operations for the periods then ended.

 

16

 
Section 7.5.                                Liens.  None of the Collateral is or will be subject to any Lien, except Permitted Liens.
 
Section 7.6.                                Subsidiaries.  The Borrower has no Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date.
 
Section 7.7.                                Investment Company Act.  The Borrower is not an “investment company” or a company “controlled” by an “investment company” within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
Section 7.8.                                Public Utility Holding Company Act.  The Borrower is not a “holding company”, or a “subsidiary company” of a “holding company”, or an “affiliate” of a “holding company” or of a “subsidiary company” of a “holding company, within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended.
 
Section 7.9.                                Regulation U.  The Borrower is not engaged principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
 
Section 7.10.                          Accuracy of Information.  All factual information heretofore or contemporaneously furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Bank for purposes of or in connection with this Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby is, and all other factual information hereafter furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Bank will be, true and accurate in every material respect on the date as of which such information is dated or certified, and, to the best of its knowledge, the Borrower has not omitted and will not omit any material fact necessary to prevent such information from being false or misleading.  The Borrower has disclosed to the Bank in writing all facts of which the Borrower has knowledge which might materially and adversely affect the business, credit, operations, financial condition or prospects of the Borrower or which at any time hereafter might materially and adversely affect any material portion of the Borrower’s properties, or the Borrower’s ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement or the Related Documents.
 
Section 7.11.                          No Default.  To the best of Borrower’s knowledge, no event has occurred and no condition exists which, upon the execution and delivery of, or consummation of any transaction contemplated by, this Agreement or any Related Document, or upon the funding of any Loan will constitute an Event of Default.
 
Section 7.12.                          Licenses and Permits.  To the best of its knowledge, the Borrower has obtained all licenses, permits, franchises and other governmental authorizations necessary to the ownership of its properties or to the conduct of its businesses, a failure to obtain or violation of which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 7.13.                          Compliance with Applicable Laws.  Except as set forth on Schedule 7.13, to the best of its knowledge, the Borrower is compliance with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules, regulations, and orders of all governmental authorities (Federal, state, local or foreign, and including, without limitation, environmental laws, rules, regulations and orders), a breach of which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

 

17

 
Section 7.14.                          Perfected Security Interests.  This Agreement, the other Related Documents and the filing of financing statements necessary to perfect the security interests granted in the Collateral create a valid and perfected first priority security interest in such of the Collateral as to which a security interest may be perfected by the filing of a financing statement, subject only to Permitted Liens.  The filing of Aircraft Security Agreements (in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank) with the applicable governmental regulatory agencies for the countries in which such Aircraft are registered, and the International Registry pursuant to the Cape Town Convention shall constitute perfection of security interest of Bank in such Aircraft required under this Agreement and the Related Documents.  As of the date of this Agreement, the filing offices necessary to perfect the security interests granted hereunder in the Collateral in which a security interest may be perfected by the filing of a financing statement are listed on Schedule 7.19 attached hereto, and all filings and other actions necessary or desirable to perfect such security interest have been duly taken.
 
Section 7.15.                          Chief Executive Office.  The chief executive office and principal place of business of Borrower is 1100 N. Wood Dale Road, Wood Dale, Illinois 60191.
 
Section 7.16.                          Other Representations and Warranties.  To the best of Borrower’s knowledge, each of the representations and warranties by the Borrower or the Guarantor in the Related Documents and all information shown in schedules, reports and other documents prepared by or at the request of the Borrower and delivered to the Bank, as such information may be modified by information made available to the Bank pursuant to Section 8.1, is true and correct, in all material respects.
 
Section 7.17.                          Anti-Terrorism Law Compliance.  Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to or in violation of any law, regulation, or list of any government agency (including without limitation, the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Control list, Executive Order No. 13224 of the USA Patriot Act) that prohibits or limits the conduct of business with or the receiving of funds, goods or services to or for the benefit of certain Persons specified therein or that prohibits or limits any Bank from making any advances or extensions of credit to the Borrower or from otherwise conducting business with the Borrower.  The Borrower and the Guarantor shall execute and deliver to the Bank such information required by the Bank to verify their respective identities, and to verify the accuracy of the representations set forth in this Section 7.23.
 
ARTICLE VIII
 
COVENANTS
 

Until the Credit Termination Date and thereafter until all Obligations including any Recovery Claims arising hereunder or under any of the Related Documents are paid in full, the Borrower agrees that, unless at any time the Bank shall otherwise expressly consent in writing, it will:

 

18

 
Section 8.1.                                Reports, Certificates and Other Information.  Furnish to the Bank:
 
(a)                                  Annual Financial Statements — AAR.  As soon as possible, and in any event within 120 days after the close of each fiscal year ended May 31, Consolidated financial statements of AAR, will be available on the internet.
 
(b)                                 Quarterly Financial Statements — AAR.  As soon as available, and in any event within forty-five (45) days after the close of each fiscal quarter, Consolidated financial statements of AAR will be available on the internet.
 
(c)                                  Quarterly Covenant Compliance Certificate.  Within ten (10) Business Days of the making available on EDGAR or the internet of the annual financial statements referenced in Section 8.1(a) or the quarterly financial statements referenced in Section 8.1(b), furnish to the Bank a duly completed certificate in the form of attached Exhibit B (a “Covenant Compliance Certificate”) dated the date of such financial statements and signed by an Authorized Officer of AAR, which Covenant Compliance Certificate shall (i) as of the end of each fiscal year of AAR, contain a computation of, and show compliance with the financial ratio contained in Section 8.14 as of the end of such fiscal year, and (ii) state that no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, or, if there is any such event, describes it and the steps, if any, being taken to cure it.
 
(d)                                 Notice of Default.  Immediately upon learning of the occurrence of an Event of Default, provide written notice thereof which describes the same and the steps being taken by the Borrower to cure such Event of Default.
 
(e)                                  Insurance Certificates.  At the time of the initial disbursement of any of the Loans, and from time-to-time thereafter, as reasonably requested by Bank, a certificate of insurance and broker’s undertaking evidencing compliance with the insurance requirements of the Security Agreement
 
(f)                                    Borrowing Base Report.  Upon and in conjunction with any request for a disbursement of a Revolving Loan and within ten (10) Business Days after any Aircraft ceases to be an Eligible Aircraft, and within Twenty (20) days after the end of each calendar month, Borrower shall provide to the Bank a current calculation of the Borrowing Base in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Bank (“Borrowing Base Report”).
 
(g)                                 Other Information.  Such other information concerning the Borrower or the Guarantor as the Bank may reasonably request from time to time.
 
Section 8.2.                                Existence and Franchises.  Except as otherwise expressly permitted in this Agreement, maintain and cause Borrower to maintain in full force and affect its existence and all rights, licenses, leases and franchises necessary to the conduct of its business, other than such rights, licenses, leases and franchises the failure of which to maintain would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 8.3.                                Books, Records and Inspections.  Maintain complete and accurate books and records, permit the Bank to have access to such books and records, and permit the

 

19

 
Bank, at the Bank’s expense, to inspect the properties and operations of the Borrower at reasonable times, upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower and during normal business hours.
 
Section 8.4.                                Insurance.  Maintain in addition to insurance required to be maintained under any other section of this Agreement, such insurance as may be required by law or by the Collateral Documents.
 
Section 8.5.                                Taxes and Liabilities.  Promptly pay, when due, all taxes, duties assessments and other liabilities, except such taxes, duties, assessments and other liabilities as the Borrower is diligently contesting in good faith and by appropriate proceedings; provided that the Borrower has established and is maintaining adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP.
 
Section 8.6.                                Limits on Commitments.  Not permit the aggregate outstanding principal amount of any Loan to exceed the limits applicable to it as set forth in Article II.
 
Section 8.7.                                Ownership of Stock of Borrower.  Not permit, without the prior written consent of the Bank, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, the majority of the issued and outstanding stock or other equity interests of the Borrower, or any warrants or rights convertible, with or without the payment of money, into stock or other equity interests of the Borrower, to be owned by any Persons other than an entity wholly-owned directly or indirectly by AAR.  Borrower shall provide prior written notice to the Bank of any proposed corporate reorganization that results in the transfer of substantially all of the assets of Borrower to the Guarantor or any Subsidiary of the Guarantor.
 
Section 8.8.                                Liens.  Not create or permit to exist any Lien with respect to any Collateral now owned or hereafter acquired, except the following Liens (herein collectively called the “Permitted Liens”):  (a) Liens for current taxes and duties not delinquent or for taxes being contested in good faith, by appropriate proceedings which do not involve, in the good faith determination of the Bank, any material danger of the sale or loss of any of the Collateral and with respect to which the Borrower has provided for and is maintaining adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP, (b) Liens in favor of the Bank, (c) Liens of mechanics, materialmen, carriers, warehousemen or other like statutory or common law liens securing obligations incurred in good faith in the ordinary course of business that are not yet delinquent in accordance with its terms or are not yet due and payable, (d) Liens in the nature of licenses that arise in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice; (e) leases and subleases not prohibited hereunder granted to others not interfering in any material respect in the business of Borrower or any Subsidiary, or (f) attachments or judgment Liens, where the attachment or judgment which gave rise to such Liens does not constitute an Event of Default hereunder.
 
Section 8.9.                                Change in Nature of Business.  Not without the prior written consent of the Bank, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed carry on any business other than a business which is the same in all material respects as its business on the date of this Agreement.

 

20

 
Section 8.10.                          Use of Proceeds.  Not use or permit the direct or indirect use of any proceeds of or with respect to the Loan for the purpose, whether immediate, incidental or ultimate, of “purchasing or carrying” (within the meaning of Regulation U) Margin Stock.
 
Section 8.11.                          Other Agreements.  Not enter into any agreement containing any provision which would be violated or breached by the performance of its obligations hereunder or under any instrument or document delivered or to be delivered by it hereunder or in connection herewith or which would violate or breach any provision hereof or of any such instrument or document.
 
Section 8.12.                          Compliance with Applicable Laws.  Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules, regulations, and orders of all governmental authorities (Federal, state, local or foreign, and including, without limitation, environmental laws, rules, regulations and orders), a breach of which would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, except where the Borrower is contesting an alleged breach in good faith and by proper proceedings and for which the Borrower or such Subsidiary is maintaining adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP.
 
Section 8.13.                          Environmental Matters.
 
(a)                                  Not permit the Collateral or any portion thereof to be involved in the use, generation, manufacture, storage, disposal or transportation of Hazardous Material except in compliance with all Environmental Laws.
 
(b)                                 Keep and maintain the Collateral and each portion thereof in compliance in all material respects with, and not cause or permit the Collateral or any portion thereof to be in material violation of, any Environmental Law.
 
(c)                                  Immediately notify the Bank in writing of:
 
(i)                                     Any and all enforcement, cleanup, removal or other governmental or regulatory actions completed, instituted or threatened, or notifications of potential liability issued against the Collateral pursuant to the application of any Environmental Laws;
 
(ii)                                  Any and all claims made or overtly threatened in writing by any Person against the Collateral relating to damage, contribution, cost recovery, compensation, loss or injury resulting from any presence, release, discharge or migration of any Hazardous Material (the matters set forth in this clause (ii) and the foregoing clause (i) being hereinafter referred to as “Environmental Claims”);
 
(iii)                               Any and all settlement agreements, consent decrees or other compromises which the Borrower shall enter into with respect to any Environmental Claims; and
 
(iv)                              Knowledge by Borrower of any occurrence or condition on any real property adjoining or in the vicinity of the Collateral that could

 

21

 
cause the Collateral or any part thereof to be subject to any material restrictions on the ownership, occupancy, transferability or use thereof under any Environmental Law.
 
Section 8.14.                          Financial Covenant.  Guarantor covenants that it will not permit the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for any Computation Period to be less than 1.50 to 1.00.
 
Section 8.15.                          Title to Aircraft Collateral.  Borrower shall, at all times, hold good and marketable title to all Aircraft pledged as Collateral for the Loans, free and clear of all Liens except Permitted Liens.  During any period that any engine, propeller, component, appliance, accessory, instrument, equipment or any other part (each, an “Aircraft Component”)is temporarily replaced, the Bank’s Lien on the replaced Aircraft Component shall continue until permanently replaced as provided in the applicable Security Agreement.
 
Section 8.16.                          Deposit Account.  Borrower shall cause AAR to deposit $6.5 million in a non-interest bearing direct deposit account at the Bank on or before the Closing Date, and shall cause AAR to maintain a balance of not less than 10% of the outstanding Obligations, from time to time, in that account until the Obligations are repaid in full and the Bank’s obligation to extend credit under this Agreement has terminated.
 
ARTICLE IX
 
CONDITIONS OF LENDING
 

The Bank’s obligation to make any Loan is subject to the following conditions precedent:

 
Section 9.1.                                Conditions to Disbursement.  The Bank’s obligation to make any Loan is subject to the satisfaction of each of the following conditions precedent:
 
(a)                                  Fees and Expenses.  The Borrower shall have paid all fees owed to the Bank and shall have reimbursed the Bank for all expenses due and payable under this Agreement on or before the Closing Date including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the Bank.
 
(b)                                 Documents.  The Bank shall have received all of the following, each duly executed and delivered and dated the Closing Date or such earlier date as shall be satisfactory to the Bank, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank:
 
(i)                                     Related Documents.  The Notes, the other Related Documents and such other instruments and documents as the Bank may require.
 
(ii)                                  Resolutions. Certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors or Members of Borrower and, where required, shareholders, authorizing or ratifying the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Related Documents to which the Borrower is a party and

 

22

 
any other documents provided for herein or therein to be executed by the Borrower.
 
(iii)                               Consents.  Certified copies of all documents evidencing any necessary corporate action, consents and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement, the Related Documents and any other documents provided for herein or therein to be executed by the Borrower.
 
(iv)                              Incumbency and Signatures.  A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names of the officer or officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the Related Documents to which it is a party, together with a sample of the true signature of each such officer. The Bank may conclusively rely on each such certificate until formally advised by a like certificate of any changes therein.
 
(v)                                 Opinion of Counsel.  An opinion of legal counsel to the Borrower and the Guarantor, in the form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and its counsel.
 
(vi)                              Governance Documents.  Certified copies of the Borrower’s current governance documents and certificates evidencing that the Borrower is in good standing under the laws of the State of its formation, and each state or country in which it is required to be qualified to do business and where a failure to so qualify would have a Material Adverse Effect on the business, operations, assets or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower.
 
(vii)                           Lien Discharges.  Such termination statements and other documents as the Bank deems necessary or appropriate in order to discharge all outstanding Liens on the Collateral (with the exception of Permitted Liens), shall have been filed in all jurisdictions that the Bank deems necessary or advisable.
 
(viii)                        Documentation with respect to Collateral.  Such policies of title insurance, lien and security interest searches and other documents and instruments as the Bank may reasonably require to evidence the perfection and priority of its liens and security interests in the Collateral.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no title search or policy of title insurance shall be required with respect to Aircraft pledged to the Bank as collateral for the Obligations, unless and until such Aircraft are included in the Borrowing Base.
 
(ix)                                Insurance Certificates.  Certificates of insurance and, if requested by the Bank, copies of insurance policies in form reasonably satisfactory to Bank indicating the coverages and conditions required by the Security Agreements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, proof of the

 

23

 
insurance coverage described above shall not be required for Aircraft pledged to the Bank as collateral for the Obligations unless and until such Aircraft are included in the Borrowing Base.
 
(x)                                   Appraisals.  The Bank shall have received satisfactory appraisals of each Aircraft proposed by Borrower for inclusion in the Borrowing Base as of the Closing Date, performed by an appraiser acceptable to the Bank, and the Bank acknowledges that it has received satisfactory appraisals for all such Aircraft.
 
(xi)                                Representations and Warranties. All representations and warranties set forth in this Agreement or any Related Documents shall be true and accurate in all material respects as of the Closing Date.
 
(xii)                             Final Credit Review and Approval.  The Bank shall have completed its final credit review of Borrower and the Guarantor, including a review of all outstanding liabilities and contingent liabilities, and the Bank shall be satisfied with the results of that review.
 
(xiii)                          Other.  Such other documents as the Bank may, in its sole discretion, request.
 
Section 9.2.                                Waiver of Conditions Precedent to Loan.  The waiver by the Bank with respect to any Loan of its right to receive one or more of the documents, instruments, approvals and opinions required to be delivered to the Bank under this Article IX as a condition precedent to the making of any Loan and/or the waiver by the Bank of any other condition or conditions precedent to the making of such Loan, whether contained in this Article IX, elsewhere in this Agreement or in any of the Related Documents, shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to deliver to the Bank all such documents, instruments, approvals and opinions and to comply with all such other conditions, and the Borrower hereby covenants and agrees that it will deliver all such documents, instruments, approvals and opinions and will comply with all such conditions within 45 days following the Closing Date, and if the Borrower fails to make all such deliveries or otherwise fully complied with all conditions precedent to the making of any Loan, such failure shall constitute an Event of Default.
 
ARTICLE X
 
EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND THEIR EFFECT
 
Section 10.1.                          Events of Default.  Each of the following shall constitute an Event of Default under this Agreement:
 
(a)                                  Nonpayment of Loan and Other Obligations.  Default in the payment when due of principal of or any interest on any Loan, or of any fees or any other amounts payable by the Borrower to the Bank hereunder, and such default shall have continued for a period in excess of five (5) Business Days.

 

24

 
(b)                                 Nonpayment of Other Debt.  Any default shall occur under the terms applicable to any Debt of any the Guarantor or any Significant Subsidiary in an aggregate amount (for all such Debt so affected and including undrawn committed or available amounts and amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) exceeding $10,000,000 and such default shall (a) consist of the failure to pay such Debt when due, whether by acceleration or otherwise, or (b) accelerate the maturity of such Debt or permit the holder or holders thereof, or any trustee or agent for such holder or holders, to cause such Debt to become due and payable (or require the Guarantor or any Subsidiary to purchase or redeem such Debt or post cash collateral in respect thereof) prior to its expressed maturity.
 
(c)                                  Bankruptcy or Insolvency.  A Borrower or the Guarantor becomes insolvent or generally fails to pay, or admits in writing its inability to pay, debts as they become due; or the Borrower or the Guarantor applies for, consents to, or acquiesces in the appointment of, a trustee, receiver or other custodian for the Borrower or the Guarantor or any property thereof, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or, in the absence of such application, consent or acquiescence, a trustee, receiver or other custodian is appointed for the Borrower or the Guarantor or for a substantial part of the property thereof and is not discharged within sixty (60) days; or any bankruptcy, reorganization, debt arrangement, or other case or proceeding under any bankruptcy or insolvency law, or any dissolution or liquidation proceeding, is commenced in respect of the Borrower or the Guarantor, and if such case or proceeding is not commenced by the Borrower or the Guarantor, it is consented to or acquiesced in by the Borrower or the Guarantor or remains for sixty (60) days undismissed; or the Borrower or the Guarantor takes any action to authorize, or in furtherance of, any of the foregoing.
 
(d)                                 Other Noncompliance with this Agreement or any Related Document.  Failure by the Borrower to comply with or to perform any provision of this Agreement or any provision of any Related Document (and not constituting an Event of Default under any of the other provisions of this Section 10) and continuance of such failure for 30 days after notice thereof to the Borrower from the Bank or the holder of any Note.
 
(e)                                  Representations and Warranties.  Any representation or warranty made by the Borrower herein or in any Related Document is false or misleading in any material respect, and if capable of cure, is not cured within thirty (30) days after receipt of notice of such default by Borrower, or any schedule, certificate, financial statement, report, notice, or other writing furnished to the Bank by the Borrower is false or misleading in any material respect on the date as of which the facts therein set forth are stated or certified.
 
(f)                                    Related Documents.  Any of the Related Documents shall fail to remain in full force and effect except as expressly provided therein due to the breach by the Borrower or the Guarantor; or any action shall be taken by the Borrower or the Guarantor to assert the unenforceability or invalidity of any of the Related Documents.

 

25

 
(g)                                 Judgments.  Final judgments which exceed an aggregate of $10,000,000 shall be rendered against the Guarantor or any Significant Subsidiary and shall not have been paid, discharged or vacated or had execution thereof stayed pending appeal with sixty (60) days after entry or filing of such judgments.
 
(h)                                 Dissolution of the Borrower or the Guarantor.  A Borrower or the Guarantor voluntarily or involuntarily dissolves or is dissolved, or terminates its existence or has its existence terminated, except in connection with a merger or consolidation of Borrower with, or transfer of all or substantially all assets of Borrower to AAR, or one of its Subsidiaries, and prior notice thereof has been provided to Bank in accordance with Section 8.7.
 
Section 10.2.  Acceleration; Termination of Commitments.  Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in Section 10.1 above and the expiration of any applicable cure period without a cure being effected, the Bank shall have the right to declare the principal of and the interest on all Loans at the time outstanding, and all other amounts owed to the Bank under this Agreement and the Related Documents, to be forthwith due and payable without presentment, demand, protest, or other notice of any kind, all of which are expressly waived, anything in this Agreement or the Related Documents to the contrary notwithstanding.
 
Section 10.3.  Rights and Remedies Generally.  If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, then the Bank shall have all the rights of a secured party under the UCC, shall have all rights now or hereafter existing under all other applicable laws, and, subject to any mandatory requirements of applicable law then in effect, shall have all the rights set forth in this Agreement and all the rights set forth with respect to the Collateral or this Agreement in any other Related Agreement between the parties hereto.  No enumeration of rights in this Section or anywhere else in this Agreement or in any other Related Agreement between the parties hereto shall be construed to in any way limit the rights or remedies of the Bank.
 
Section 10.4.  Direct Debtor to Dispose of Collateral.  After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, the Bank may direct the Borrower to sell, assign or otherwise liquidate or dispose of all or from time to time any portion of the Collateral, and the Borrower shall use reasonable commercial efforts to comply with such directions, and the Bank may take possession of the Net Proceeds of such Collateral.  The Bank may require the Borrower to direct that all Net Proceeds of such Collateral be paid directly to the Bank and upon such direction the Borrower shall promptly comply.
 
Section 10.5.  Possession of Collateral.  After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, the Bank may take possession of the Collateral as follows:
 
(a)                                  Bank may require Borrower to deliver to Bank all or any portion of the Collateral and any documents relating to the Collateral.  The Bank may require Borrower to assemble the Collateral and make it available to the Bank at a place to be designated by the Bank.
 
(b)                                 Bank may, personally or by agents, representatives or attorneys, immediately take possession of all or any part of the Collateral (including the originals of

 

26

 
all records pertaining to the Collateral), from Borrower or any other person who then has possession of any part thereof with or without notice or judicial process, and in order to take possession may enter upon any premises of Borrower where all or any part of the Collateral is located and remove such Collateral provided no breach of peace is committed, and may use in connection with such removal any and all services, supplies and other facilities of the Borrower or may, without being responsible for loss or damage (other than loss or damage caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Bank or its agents) hold, store, keep idle, use, operate or otherwise use or permit the use of the same or any part thereof for such time as the Bank may deem to be commercially reasonable.
 
(c)                                  Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, the immediately preceding paragraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply with respect to an item of Collateral during any period of time (identified and commenced by written notice from Borrower to the Bank) when (i) it is necessary to place such Collateral in service pursuant to a contract between Borrower (or any Subsidiary of the Guarantor) and the United States Government or other governmental entity or subdivision thereof (the necessity of which shall be verified to the Bank’s reasonable satisfaction by Borrower or such other person reasonably required by the Bank without disclosing classified information) or (ii) when such actions are prohibited by applicable laws and regulations, provided that within ten (10) days after the commencement of any such period of time, Borrower pledges to the Bank cash, Cash Equivalents, or a letter of credit issued by a financial institution other than the Bank that is reasonably satisfactory to the Bank equal to the fair market value of such Collateral as additional security for the Obligations.
 
(d)                                 At any time Collateral is in the Bank’s possession, the Borrower shall pay, or promptly reimburse the Bank on demand for, all reasonable costs and expenses (including the cost of any insurance and payment of taxes or other charges) incurred in the custody, preservation, use or operation of the Collateral, and the obligation to reimburse all such costs and expenses shall be secured hereby.
 
Section 10.6.  Disposition of the Collateral.  After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, the Bank may sell, assign, lease, give an option or options to purchase or otherwise dispose of all or any part of the Collateral (or contract to do any of the foregoing) under one or more contracts, agreements or as an entirety, and without the necessity of gathering at the location of sale the property to be sold, at public or private sale or sales, conducted by any officer, nominee or agent of, or auctioneer or attorney for, the Bank at any location of any third party conducting or otherwise involved in such sale or any office of the Bank or other location and in general in such manner, at such time or times and upon such terms and conditions and at such price as the Bank may consider commercially reasonable, for cash or on credit or for future delivery without assumption of any credit risk.  Any of the Collateral may be sold, leased, assigned or options or contracts entered to do so, or otherwise disposed of, in the condition in which such Collateral existed when taken by the Bank or after any overhaul or repair which the Bank shall determine to be commercially reasonable.  Any such disposition which shall be a private sale or other private proceeding shall be made upon not less than ten (10) days advance written notice to the Borrower describing the time after which such disposition is to be made and the intended sale price or other consideration therefor.  Any such

 

27

 
disposition which shall be a public sale shall be made upon not less than ten (10) days advance written notice to the Borrower (which the Borrower hereby acknowledges and agrees to be commercially reasonable) specifying the time and place of such sale and, in the absence of applicable requirements of law to the contrary, shall be by public auction, after publication of notice of such auction not less than ten (10) days prior thereto.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Bank may bid for and become the purchaser of the Collateral or any item thereof, offered for sale in accordance with this Section without accountability to the Borrower (except to the extent of surplus money received and except as to any accounting of any surplus or deficiency that Borrower is permitted to request under the UCC).  The Bank may require such potential bidders or purchasers to have certain commercially reasonable qualifications.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if all or any part of the Collateral is perishable or threatens to decline speedily in value or is of a type customarily sold in a recognized market only such notice as shall be reasonably practicable shall be required.
 
Section 10.7.  Recourse.  The Borrower shall be liable for any deficiency if the proceeds of any sale or other disposition of the Collateral are insufficient to satisfy the Obligations.  The Borrower shall also be liable for all reasonable costs and expenses of the Bank incurred in connection with collecting such deficiency, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of any attorneys employed by the Bank to collect such deficiency.
 
Section 10.8.  Application of Proceeds.  The proceeds of any disposition of Collateral shall be applied as follows:
 
(a)                                  first, to the payment of any and all expenses and fees (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and disbursements) incurred by the Bank in connection with the exercise of their rights and remedies hereunder, including, without limitation, expenses and fees in connection with obtaining, taking possession of, removing, holding, insuring, repairing, preparing for sale or lease, storing and disposing of Collateral;
 
(b)                                 next, to the satisfaction of the Obligations in such order of application as the Bank, in its sole discretion, may elect;
 
(c)                                  next, to any other payment of any amount required to be paid by the Bank by law; and
 
(d)                                 finally, any remaining surplus to the Borrower.
 
Section 10.9.  Limitation on Duties Regarding Preservation of Collateral.  The Bank’s sole duty to the Borrower with respect to the custody, safekeeping and physical preservation of the Collateral in its possession, under the UCC or otherwise, shall be to deal with such Collateral in the same manner as the Bank deals with similar property for its own account.  The Bank shall have no obligation to take any steps to preserve rights against prior parties to any Collateral.  Neither the Bank nor any of its directors, officers, employees or agents shall be liable for failure to demand, collect or realize upon all or any part of the Collateral or for any delay in doing so or shall be under any obligation to sell or otherwise dispose of any Collateral upon the request of the Borrower or otherwise.

 

28

 
Section 10.10. Waiver of Claims.  EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE BORROWER HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, NOTICE AND JUDICIAL HEARING IN CONNECTION WITH THE BANK’S TAKING POSSESSION OR SALE OR THE BANK’S DISPOSITION OF ANY OF THE COLLATERAL DURING THE EXISTENCE OF AN EVENT OF DEFAULT, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY AND ALL PRIOR NOTICE AND HEARING FOR ANY PREJUDGMENT REMEDY OR REMEDIES AND ANY SUCH RIGHT WHICH THE BORROWER WOULD OTHERWISE HAVE UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OR ANY STATUTE OF THE UNITED STATES OR OF ANY STATE.  THE BORROWER HEREBY FURTHER WAIVES (AND RELEASES ANY CAUSE OF ACTION AND CLAIM AGAINST THE BANK AS A RESULT OF), TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW:
 
(a)                                  ALL DAMAGES OCCASIONED BY SUCH TAKING OF POSSESSION, COLLECTION OR SALE EXCEPT ANY DAMAGES WHICH ARE THE DIRECT RESULT OF THE BANK’S GROSS NEGLIGENCE, WILLFUL MISCONDUCT, OR NEGLIGENT CONDUCT ESTABLISHED BY CLEAR AND CONVINCING EVIDENCE;
 
(b)                                 ALL OTHER REQUIREMENTS AS TO THE TIME, PLACE AND TERMS OF SALE OR OTHER REQUIREMENTS WITH RESPECT TO THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE BANK’S RIGHTS HEREUNDER;
 
(c)                                  EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED BY THIS AGREEMENT, DEMAND OF PERFORMANCE OR OTHER DEMAND, NOTICE OF INTENT TO DEMAND OR ACCELERATE, NOTICE OF ACCELERATION, PRESENTMENT, PROTEST, ADVERTISEMENT OR NOTICE OF ANY KIND TO OR UPON THE BORROWER OR ANY OTHER PERSON;
 
(d)                                 ALL RIGHTS OF APPRAISEMENT, VALUATION, DILIGENCE, STAY, EXTENSION, MORATORIUM OR POST-SALE RIGHTS OF REDEMPTION NOW OR HEREAFTER IN FORCE UNDER ANY APPLICABLE LAW IN ORDER TO DELAY THE ENFORCEMENT OF THIS AGREEMENT; AND
 
(e)                                  ANY RIGHT TO REQUIRE ANY MARSHALING OF ASSETS AND ANY SIMILAR RIGHT.
 
Section 10.11. Grant of License to Use General Intangibles.  Solely for the purpose of enabling the Bank to exercise rights and remedies hereunder at such time as the Bank shall be lawfully entitled to exercise such rights and remedies, the Borrower hereby grants to the Bank (subject to any license restrictions binding upon the Borrower), an irrevocable, nonexclusive license (exercisable without payment of royalty or other compensation to the Borrower) to use, assign, license or sublicense any of the General Intangibles, now owned or hereafter acquired by the Borrower, and wherever the same may be located, including in such license reasonable access to all media in which any of the licensed items may be recorded or stored and to all computer programs used for the compilation or printout thereof, to the extent

 

29

 
such General Intangibles do not constitute classified information and such use is permitted under applicable law.
 
Section 10.12. Covenant of Quiet Engagement.  Provided no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, neither the Bank nor any person or entity lawfully claiming by or through the Bank shall interfere with Borrower’s, the Guarantor’s or any Subsidiary of Guarantor’s, or any lessee’s quiet use, possession or enjoyment of any Aircraft constituting collateral in respect of any Loan made hereunder.
 
ARTICLE XI
 
GENERAL
 
Section 11.1.  Waiver; Amendments.  No delay on the part of the Bank or the holder of any Note in the exercise of any right, power or remedy shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise by any of them of any right, power or remedy preclude other or further exercise thereof, or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy.  No amendment, modification or waiver of, or consent with respect to, any provision of this Agreement or any Related Document shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed and delivered by the Bank, and then any such amendment, modification, waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given.
 
Section 11.2.  Notices.  Except as otherwise specifically provided for herein or therein, all notices and other communications under this Agreement and any of the Related Documents shall be in writing or by telephone, confirmed in writing.  Written notices and communications shall be given by:
 
(a)                                  certified mail;
 
(b)                                 facsimile or other electronic transmission confirmed by mailing or delivering a copy as provided in clause (a), clause, (c) or clause (d) hereof;
 
(c)                                  by hand delivery; or
 
(d)                                 by courier service (including overnight delivery service such as Federal Express).
 

Notices shall be deemed to have been given (a) in the case of notice by certified mail, three days after deposit thereof in the United States mails, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, and (b) in all other cases, upon receipt of the notice without regard to the date of receipt of any confirming copy; provided that a notice directed to the attention of any individual at a business entity, other than a notice given by telephone, shall be deemed given when received by any employee of the entity at the address or facsimile number to which such notice is to be sent as determined in accordance with this Section.  Copies of notices directed to a party which are required to be sent to other persons shall be deemed received by such other persons on the date on which the party receives such notice.

 

30

 

Notices to the Borrower shall be directed as follows:

 

EP AVIATION, LLC

1100 North Wood Dale Road

Wood Dale, Illinois  60191

Attention:  Michael Carr, Vice President

Telephone No.  ###-###-####

Facsimile No.  ###-###-####

Email: ***@***

 

With a copy to:

AAR CORP.

1100 North Wood Dale Road

Wood Dale, Illinois  60191

Attention:  Michael Carr, Vice President

Telephone No.  ###-###-####

Facsimile No.  ###-###-####

Email: ***@***

 

Notices in writing to the Bank shall be directed as follows:

 

THE HUNTINGTON NATIONAL BANK

105 East 4th Street (CN01)

Cincinnati, OH  45202

Attention:  Kim Trombetta, Sr. Vice President

Telephone Number: (513) 762-5194

Facsimile Number: (513) 762-1873

 

Notices shall be given to the officer of the Bank at the time responsible for the administration of this Agreement as specified by the Bank to the Borrower from time to time.  A telephonic notice to the Bank, as understood by the Bank, shall be deemed to be the controlling and proper notice in the event of a discrepancy with or failure to receive a confirming written notice.  Either party may change, from time to time, the persons to whom or the addresses, or the telephone numbers or the facsimile numbers to which notices are to be sent by serving upon the other a written notice designated as a “Notice of Change of Address”.

 
Section 11.3.  Computations.  Where the character or amount of any asset or liability or item of income or expense is required to be determined, or any consolidation or other accounting computation is required to be made, for purposes of this Agreement such determination or calculation shall, to the extent applicable and except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, be made in accordance with GAAP consistently applied; provided that if the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank that the Guarantor wishes to amend, or has been required to amend under the Guarantor Credit Agreement, the covenant in Sections 8.14 (or any related definition) to eliminate or to take into account the effect of any change in GAAP on the operation of such covenant, then the Guarantor’s compliance with such covenant shall be determined on the basis of GAAP in effect immediately before the relevant change in GAAP

 

31

 
became effective, until either such notice is withdrawn or such covenant (or related definition) is amended in a manner satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank.
 
Section 11.4.  Regulation U.  Each Bank represents that it, in good faith, is not relying either directly or indirectly upon any Margin Stock as collateral security for the extension or maintenance by it of any credit provided for in this Agreement.
 
Section 11.5.  Costs, Expenses and Taxes.
 
(a)                                  Subject to the limitation set forth in Section 4.6(b), Borrower agrees to pay on demand all of the Bank’s reasonable out of pocket costs and expenses (including the reasonable fees and out of pocket expenses of counsel) in connection with the preparation, execution, and delivery of this Agreement, the Related Documents and all other instruments or documents provided for herein or delivered or to be delivered hereunder or in connection herewith (including, without limitation, all amendments, supplements and waivers executed and delivered pursuant hereto or in connection herewith).  The Borrower further agrees that the Bank, in its sole discretion, and following notice to the Borrower may deduct all such unpaid amounts from the aggregate proceeds of the Loan.
 
(b)                                 The Obligations shall include, and the Borrower shall pay to the Bank on demand, any and all reasonable costs, charges, fees and other expenses incurred by the Bank if the Bank, in its sole discretion, (i) employs counsel for advice or other representation (A) with respect to the amendment or enforcement of this Agreement or the Related Documents, or with respect to the Collateral or any other collateral securing the Obligations, (B) to represent the Bank in any litigation, contest, dispute, suit or proceeding or to commence, defend or intervene or to take any other action in or with respect to any litigation, contest, dispute, suit or proceeding (whether instituted by the Bank, the Borrower or any other Person) in any way or respect relating to this Agreement, the Related Documents, the Borrower’s affairs, the Collateral or any other collateral securing the Obligations or (C) to enforce any of the Bank’s rights with respect to the Borrower; (ii) takes any action to protect, collect, sell, liquidate or otherwise dispose of the Collateral any other collateral securing the Obligations hereunder (other than any action by Borrower against and determined adversely to Bank and/or its assigns for breach of any obligation of the “Bank” hereunder and/or under any Related Document); and/or (iii) seeks to enforce or enforces any of the Bank’s rights and remedies with respect to the Borrower.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such costs, charges, fees and expenses shall include:
 
(i)                                     reasonable fees, costs and expenses of attorneys, accountants and consultants; court costs and expenses; court reporter fees, costs and expenses; long distance telephone charges; telecopier charges; and expenses for travel, lodging and food; and

 

32

 
(ii)                                  any and all fees, costs, and expenses of whatever kind or nature reasonably incurred in connection with the creation, preservation or protection of the Bank’s Liens on, and security interest in, the Collateral, including, without limitation, all fees and taxes in connection with the recording or filing of instruments and documents in public offices, payment or discharge of any taxes or Liens upon or in respect of the Collateral, premiums for insurance with respect to the Collateral and all other fees, costs and expenses in connection with protecting, maintaining or preserving the Collateral and the Bank’s interest therein, whether through judicial proceedings or otherwise, or in defending or prosecuting any actions, suits or proceedings arising out of or relating to the Collateral.
 
(c)                                  The Borrower further agrees to pay, and to save the Bank harmless from all liability for, any stamp or other taxes which may be payable in connection with the execution or delivery of this Agreement, the Related Documents, the borrowing hereunder, or the issuance of the Notes or of any other instruments or documents provided for herein or delivered or to he delivered hereunder or in connection herewith.
 
(d)                                 All of the Borrower’s obligations provided for in this Section 11.5 shall be Obligations, and shall survive repayment of any Loan, cancellation of any Note, or any termination of this Agreement or any Related Document.
 
Section 11.6.  Interest on Advances.  Whenever under the provisions of this Agreement or of any of the Related Documents, the Borrower is obligated to pay certain expenses of the Bank or to reimburse the Bank for amounts advanced by it, whether such advance is by reason of a default by the Borrower or otherwise, the amounts so advanced shall, after three (3) days prior notice from Bank to Borrower, bear interest at the Applicable Interest Rate.
 
Section 11.7.  Indemnification.  In consideration of the Bank’s execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Bank’s agreement to make any disbursement of the Loan hereunder, the Borrower hereby agrees to indemnify, exonerate and hold the Bank and each of its officers, directors, employees and agents (herein collectively called the “Bank Parties” and individually called a “Bank Party”) free and harmless from and against any and all actions, causes of action, suits, losses, costs (including, without limitation, all documentary or other stamp taxes or duties), liabilities and damages, and expenses in connection therewith, but excluding any action, suits, losses, costs, liabilities and damages, and expenses arising from the Banks’ or any holder of a Note’s gross negligence or willful misconduct (irrespective of whether such Bank Party is a party to the action for which indemnification hereunder is sought) (the “Indemnified Liabilities”), including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees and disbursements, incurred by the Bank Parties or any of them as a result of, or arising out of, or relating to:
 
(a)                                  any transaction financed or to be financed in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, with the proceeds of the Loans;

 

33

 
(b)                                 the execution, delivery, performance, administration or enforcement of this Agreement and the Related Documents in accordance with their respective terms by any of the Bank Parties, provided that nothing contained in this clause (b) shall require the Borrower to indemnify, exonerate or hold harmless any of the Bank Parties with respect to any act or failure to act by such Bank Party in breach of the undertakings of the Bank under this Agreement and the Related Documents;
 
(c)                                  the presence (prior to the date that the Bank acquires possession of the Collateral) on or under the Collateral of any Hazardous Material or underground storage tank, or any releases or discharges of any Hazardous Material (prior to the date that the Bank acquires possession of the Collateral), on, under or from the Collateral (including residual contamination thereon or thereunder), or affecting natural resources; or the performance of any activity undertaken on or off the Collateral (prior to the date that the Bank acquires possession of the Collateral) or relating to the generation, use, handling, treatment, removal, storage, decontamination, clean up, transport or disposal of any Hazardous Material located on or under the Collateral (prior to the date that the Bank acquires possession of the Collateral), irrespective whether (i) the Borrower or any of its employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors, (ii) any predecessor in title, or any employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors of the predecessor in title, or (iii) any third Persons occupying or present on the Collateral who engaged in such activity prior to, during or subsequent to the term of this Agreement or whether such activities were or will be taken in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances, except for any such Indemnified Liabilities arising solely on account of such Bank Party’s gross negligence, willful misconduct, or negligence established by clear and convincing evidence; or
 
(d)                                 any misrepresentation in this Agreement or in any Related Document or in any statement or writing contemplated by or made or delivered pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any Related Document or any breach of any warranty or covenant herein or in any Related Document
 

If and to the extent that the foregoing agreements described in this Section 11.7 may be unenforceable for any reason, the Borrower hereby agrees to make the maximum contribution to the payment and satisfaction of each of the Indemnified Liabilities which is permissible under applicable law.  All of the Borrower’s obligations under this Section 11.7 shall survive repayment of the Loans, cancellation of any Note, or any termination of this Agreement or any Related Document

 
Section 11.8.  Power of Attorney.  After the occurrence and continuation of an Event of Default, and after the Bank has accelerated the Loans and given notice thereof to Borrower, the Borrower hereby irrevocably appoints the Bank (and any officers, employees or agents designated by Bank), with full power of substitution by Bank, as its attorney, with power (a) to endorse the name of the Borrower on any checks, notes, acceptances, money orders, drafts or other forms of payment or security that constitute part of the Collateral or that may come into the Bank’s possession in accordance with this Agreement, and (b) in the exercise of its rights hereunder or as may otherwise be reasonably necessary or desirable to accomplish the purposes of this Agreement, to sign the name of the Borrower on any invoice or bill of lading relating to

 

34

 
any Collateral, on any drafts against customers related to letters of credit, on schedules and assignments of accounts furnished to the Bank by the Borrower, on notices of assignment, financing statements, chattel mortgages and amendments and supplements thereto, and other documents relating to the perfection or priority of any of the Bank’s security interests, or verifications of account and on notices to or from customers.  The Borrower hereby ratifies all that said attorneys shall lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This power of attorney is a power coupled with an interest and shall be irrevocable.  Any failure by the Bank to give the Borrower prior notice of actions taken by the Bank under this Section shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any such actions, nor shall the Bank incur any liability or penalties for such failure.  The powers conferred on the Bank hereunder are solely to protect the interests of the Bank in the Collateral and shall not impose any duty upon the Bank to exercise any such powers.
 
Section 11.9.  Termination of Agreement; Recovery Claims.  This Agreement shall terminate when all the Obligations have been fully and finally paid and performed (other than continuing indemnification obligations not then due and payable) and all commitments and other undertakings of the Bank to extend credit to the Borrower have terminated, at which time the Bank shall reassign and redeliver (or cause to be reassigned and redelivered) to the Borrower, or to such Person as the Borrower shall designate, against receipt, such of the Collateral (if any) assigned by the Borrower to the Bank as shall not have been sold or otherwise applied by the Bank pursuant to the terms hereof and shall still be held by it hereunder, together with appropriate instruments of reassignment and release.  Any such reassignment shall be without recourse upon or representation or warranty by the Bank and shall be at the cost and expense of the Borrower.  Should a claim (“Recovery Claim”) be made upon the Bank at any time for recovery of any amount received by the Bank in payment of the Obligations (whether received from the Borrower or otherwise) and should the Bank repay all or part of said amount by reason of (a) any judgment, decree or order of any court or administrative body having jurisdiction over the Bank or any of its property; or (b) any settlement or compromise of, or other agreement with respect to, any such Recovery Claim effected by the Bank with the claimant (including the Borrower), this Agreement and the security interests granted to the Bank hereunder shall continue in effect with respect to the amount so repaid to the same extent as if such amount had never originally been received by the Bank, notwithstanding any prior termination of this Agreement, the release of any or all of the Collateral, or the cancellation of any note or other instrument evidencing the Obligations.
 
Section 11.10. References to Subsidiaries.  The provisions of this Agreement relating to Subsidiaries shall apply only during such times as the Borrower has one or more Subsidiaries.
 
Section 11.11. Governing Law; Jury Trial; Severability.  This Agreement and the Note shall be a contract made under and governed by the laws of the State of Michigan, without regard to conflict of laws principles. Wherever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement shall be prohibited by or invalid under such law, such provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement.  All obligations of the Borrower and rights of the Bank and any other holders of the Note, which obligations and

 

35

 
rights are described herein or in the Note, shall be in addition to and not in limitation of those provided by applicable law.
 

THE BORROWER AND THE BANK IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING (I) TO ENFORCE OR DEFEND ANY RIGHTS UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, THE RELATED DOCUMENTS, THE LOAN OR ANY AMENDMENT, INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT DELIVERED OR WHICH MAY IN THE FUTURE BE DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THEREWITH, OR (II) ARISING FROM ANY DISPUTE OR CONTROVERSY IN CONNECTION WITH OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT, THE RELATED DOCUMENTS, THE LOAN, OR ANY SUCH AMENDMENT, INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT, AND AGREE THAT ANY SUCH ACTION OR COUNTERCLAIM SHALL BE TRIED BEFORE A COURT AND NOT BEFORE A JURY.

 

THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AGREES THAT, SUBJECT TO THE BANK’S SOLE AND ABSOLUTE ELECTION, ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY WAY, MANNER OR RESPECT ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, THE RELATED DOCUMENTS, THE LOAN OR ANY AMENDMENT, INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT DELIVERED OR WHICH MAY IN THE FUTURE BE DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THEREWITH, OR ARISING FROM ANY DISPUTE OR CONTROVERSY ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT, THE RELATED DOCUMENTS, THE LOAN OR ANY SUCH AMENDMENT, INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT SHALL BE LITIGATED ONLY IN THE COURTS HAVING SITUS WITHIN THE STATE OF MICHIGAN, AND THE BORROWER HEREBY CONSENTS AND SUBMITS TO THE JURISDICTION OF ANY LOCAL, STATE OR FEDERAL COURT LOCATED WITHIN SUCH STATE.  THE BORROWER HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO TRANSFER OR CHANGE THE VENUE OF ANY LITIGATION BROUGHT AGAINST THE BORROWER BY THE BANK IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS SECTION.

 

IF AND TO THE EXTENT ANY PROVISION OF ANY RELATED DOCUMENT IS INCONSISTENT WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL CONTROL.

 
Section 11.12. Joint and Several Liability.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Agreement or in any Related Document, to the extent that the more than one entity falls within the definition of “Borrower” as defined herein, the obligations of the Borrower hereunder and under the Related Documents are joint and several and each entity comprising the Borrower hereby agrees that it shall be liable for the entire amount of the Obligations.
 
Section 11.13. Counterparts.  This Agreement and any amendment or supplement hereto or any waiver granted in connection herewith may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the different parties on separate counterparts and each such counterpart shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same Agreement.  An executed counterpart of this Agreement delivered by facsimile or other

 

36

 
electronic means shall for all purposes be as effective as delivery of an original, executed counterpart.
 
Section 11.14. Successors and Assigns.  This Agreement shall be binding upon the Borrower, the Bank and their respective successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Bank and the Bank’s successors and assigns. The Borrower shall have no right to assign its rights or delegate its duties under this Agreement.
 
Section 11.15. Prior Agreements.  The terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement shall supersede all prior agreements, discussions, correspondence, memoranda and understandings (whether written or oral) of the Borrower and the Bank concerning or relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.
 
Section 11.16. Assignment; Sale of Participating Interests.  The Bank may sell or assign all or any part of its interest in any Loan to another financial institution with the consent of the Borrower (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and shall not be required for an assignment by the Bank to one of its Affiliates or in the event Bank is acquired by or merged with another financial institution); provided that, if an Event of Default exists, no such notice to, or consent from, the Borrower shall be required.  The Bank may sell or assign one or more participating interests in any Loan to other financial institutions without notice to, or consent from, the Borrower.  The terms and conditions of any such sale or assignment shall be determined by the Bank in its sole discretion.
 

(Signatures appear on the following page)

 

37

 

WHEREFORE, the parties have executed this Master Loan Agreement as of the date first written above.

 

 
	

EP AVIATION, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company

 
	

 

 
	

 

 
	

By
	

/s/ Timothy J. Romenesko

 
	

 

 
	

Its
	

Manager

 
	

 

 
	

 
	

BORROWER

 
	

 

 
	

 

 
	

Solely for the purpose of agreeing to the Financial Covenant of Section 8.14:

 
	

 

 
	

AAR CORP., a Delaware corporation

 
	

 

 
	

By
	

/s/ David P. Storch

 
	

 

 
	

Its
	

Chairman & CEO

 
	

 

 
	

 
	

GUARANTOR

 
	

 

 
	

 

 
	

THE HUNTINGTON NATIONAL BANK, a national banking association

 
	

 

 
	

By
	

/s/ Kim J. Trombatta

 
	

 

 
	

Its
	

Sr. Vice President

 
	

 
	

Equipment Finance Division

 
	

 

 
	

 

 
	

 
	

BANK
				

 

38

 

SCHEDULE 1.1

PERMITTED LIENS

 

[NONE]

 

39

 

SCHEDULE 7.13

COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS

 

The matters described on Schedules 5.8 and 5.9 of the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 25, 2009, by and among Xe Services, AAR Airlift, LLC and AAR Corp.

 

40

 

SCHEDULE 7.14

FILING OFFICES

 

1.                                       Federal Aviation Administration IAA Aircraft Registry

P.O. Box 25504

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma  73125

 

2.                                       International Registry of Mobile Assets (Cape Town)

 

3.                                       State of Delaware

Delaware Division of Corporations

401 Federal Suite — Suite 4

Dover, DE  19901

 

41

 

SCHEDULE 8.9

PERMITTED INDEBTEDNESS

[NONE]

 

42

 

EXHIBIT A

 

FORM OF:

REVOLVING LOAN NOTE

 

$65,000,000.00
	

Grand Rapids, Michigan

 
	

April 23, 2010           

 

The undersigned, for value received, jointly and severally promise to pay to the order of THE HUNTINGTON NATIONAL BANK (together with its successors and assigns, called the “Bank”) at the Bank’s principal office in Grand Rapids, Michigan, the principal amount of Sixty-Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($65,000,000.00), or, such lesser amount as shown either on any Schedule attached hereto or in the Bank’s records.

 

Each disbursement under this Note shall be accounted for separately, and shall be repaid in equal monthly installments of 1/84th of the principal amount of such disbursement, plus interest accrued at the Applicable Interest Rate on the outstanding amount of such disbursement through the date of payment.  Payments under this Note shall begin on the first Business Day of the month immediately following the initial disbursement of the Loan, and continuing on the first Business Day of each month thereafter.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, all outstanding principal and accrued interest shall automatically become due and payable on the Credit Termination Date.

 

Subject to any maximum or minimum interest rate limitations specified herein or by applicable laws, the Applicable Interest Rate shall change automatically without notice to the Borrower on the first day of each LIBOR Rate Interest Period but not more often than each month to reflect any change in the LIBOR Rate.  This Note may be prepaid in whole or in part at any time as provided in the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined).  Payments of both principal and interest shall be made in the form of lawful money of the United States of America.  If a regularly scheduled payment is made ten (10) or more days after it is due, the undersigned will be charged the greater of 5% of the late payment or $25.00.

 

Terms used but not otherwise defined herein are defined in that Master Loan Agreement dated as of April 23, 2010 between the undersigned and the Bank (herein, as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time-to-time called the “Credit Agreement”).  The Credit Agreement sets forth said terms and provisions, including those under which this Note may or must be paid prior to its due date or may have its due date accelerated.  This Note is secured pursuant to the Credit Agreement and various Related Documents referred to therein, and reference is made thereto for a statement of terms and provisions.

 

In addition to, and not in limitation of, the foregoing and the provisions of the Credit Agreement hereinabove referred to, the undersigned further jointly and severally agree, subject only to any limitation imposed by applicable law, to pay all reasonable expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses, incurred by the holder of this Note in seeking to collect any amounts payable hereunder which are not paid when due, whether by acceleration or otherwise.

 

43

 

The undersigned and the Bank acknowledge and agree that execution and delivery of this Note by the Trustee, not in its individual capacity but only in its capacity as Trustee of the Aircraft Trust, shall not create or impose any liability for the Obligations upon the Trustee, but shall only bind the Aircraft Trust.

 

This Note is binding upon the undersigned and its successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of the Bank and its successors and assigns.  This Note is made under and governed by the laws of the State of Michigan without regard to conflict of laws principles.

 

 
	

EP AVIATION, LLC,

 
	

a Delaware limited liability company

 
	

 

 
	

 

 
	

By:
	

 

 
	

 
	

 

 
	

Its:
	

 

 

44

 

EXHIBIT B

FORM OF:

COVENANT COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE

 

The undersigned certifies to Huntington National Bank (the “Bank”), as of the date of this Certificate, the following:

 

A.                                   The undersigned is the chief financial officer of AAR CORP., a Delaware corporation (“AAR”), and have been authorized and directed to execute this Certificate on behalf of AAR and its subsidiaries, and EP Aviation, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Borrower”).

 

B.                                     We have read and understand the Master Loan Agreement dated as of April       , 2010, and as subsequently amended, supplemented or otherwise modified “) from time to time (the “Credit Agreement”) between the Borrower and the Bank.

 

C.                                     The financial statements of AAR and its Subsidiaries available online via Edgar are true and accurate, and fairly reflect the financial condition of such as of the reporting periods covered by those financial statements which are in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Practices, except as follows:

 

1
	

 
	

.

 
	

 
	

 

2
	

 
	

.

 

D.                                    The undersigned represents and warrants that no Event of Default under the Credit Agreement has occurred on or before the date of this Certificate except as follows: (check the appropriate box with an X)

 

1                                          o Not Applicable (No Events of Default have occurred that have not been waived in writing by the Bank).

 

2                                          o The following Events of Default have occurred and/or are continuing and have not been waived in writing or amended in writing by the Bank:

 

a.
	

 
	

 

 
	

 
	

 

b.
	

 
	

 

 

E.                                      Based upon the Consolidated and Consolidating financial statements of AAR the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is                  to                  and therefore, Borrower (is/is not) in compliance with the financial covenant set forth in Section 8.14 of the Credit Agreement.

 

F.                                      Terms not otherwise defined in this Certificate shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.

 

45

 

The undersigned has signed this Certificate on behalf of AAR and the Borrower on                                       , 20      .

 

 
	

AAR CORP., a Delaware corporation

 
	

 

 
	

By
	

 

 
	

 
	

 

 
	

Its:
	

 

 

46

 

EXHIBIT C

AIRCRAFT PLEDGED AS COLLATERAL

 

Owner
	

 
	

Deployed/
Not Deployed
	

 
	

Model
	

 
	

Reg. No.
	

 
	

HNB – Appraisal
Value
	

 
	

75% of HNB
Appraisal Value
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

C-212-200 CC 50
	

 
	

N966BW
	

 
	

$
	

891,781.00
	

 
	

$
	

668,835.75
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

C-212-200 CC 60
	

 
	

N963BW
	

 
	

$
	

1,065,597.00
	

 
	

$
	

799,197.75
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

C-212-200 CD 51
	

 
	

N967BW
	

 
	

$
	

902,242.00
	

 
	

$
	

676,681.50
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

C-212-200 CD 51
	

 
	

N2357G
	

 
	

$
	

1,084,952.00
	

 
	

$
	

813,714.00
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

C-212-300 DF
	

 
	

N6369C
	

 
	

$
	

1,201,210.00
	

 
	

$
	

900,907.50
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

S-61N
	

 
	

N61NH
	

 
	

$
	

3,969,000.00
	

 
	

$
	

2,976,750.00
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

S-61N
	

 
	

N725JH
	

 
	

$
	

4,129,000.00
	

 
	

$
	

3,096,750.00
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

S-61N
	

 
	

N905AL
	

 
	

$
	

4,177,700.00
	

 
	

$
	

3,133,275.00
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

S-61N
	

 
	

N103WF
	

 
	

$
	

4,307,000.00
	

 
	

$
	

3,230,250.00
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

S-61N
	

 
	

N364FH
	

 
	

$
	

4,312,000.00
	

 
	

$
	

3,234,000.00
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

S-61N
	

 
	

N116AZ
	

 
	

$
	

4,483,700.00
	

 
	

$
	

3,362,775.00
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

SA-227DC Metro 23
	

 
	

N955BW
	

 
	

$
	

941,450.00
	

 
	

$
	

706,087.50
	

 

EPA
	

 
	

Deployed
	

 
	

SA-227DC Metro 23
	

 
	

N956BW
	

 
	

$
	

1,066,900.00
	

 
	

$
	

800,175.00

LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

THIS LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”), dated and effective as of June 10, 2021 (the “Effective Date”), by and among ROCKET LAB USA, INC., a Delaware corporation (“Parent”) and ROCKET LAB GLOBAL SERVICES, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“RL Global” and, together with Parent and such Subsidiaries of Parent that join this Agreement as “Borrowers” after the date hereof, individually and collectively, jointly and severally, “Borrower”), the several banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties to this Agreement (collectively, referred to as the “Lenders”) and HERCULES CAPITAL, INC., a Maryland corporation, in its capacity as administrative agent and collateral agent for itself and the Lenders (in such capacity, the “Agent”), provides the terms on which the Lenders shall lend to Borrower and Borrower shall repay the Lenders. The parties agree as follows:

 
1 	

ACCOUNTING AND OTHER TERMS

Accounting terms not defined in this Agreement shall be construed following GAAP. Calculations and determinations must be made following GAAP. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all financial covenant and other financial calculations shall be computed with respect to Borrower only, and not on a consolidated basis. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in Section 13. All other terms contained in this Agreement, unless otherwise indicated, shall have the meaning provided by the Code to the extent such terms are defined therein.

 
2 	

LOAN AND TERMS OF PAYMENT

2.1 Promise to Pay. Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) the outstanding principal amount of all Credit Extensions and accrued and unpaid interest thereon as and when due in accordance with this Agreement.

2.2 Intentionally Omitted.

2.3 Term Loan Advances.

(a) Availability. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, upon Borrower’s request, on the Effective Date, the Lenders will severally (and not jointly) make in an amount not to exceed its respective Term Loan Commitment a single term loan advance to Borrower in an aggregate original principal amount not to exceed One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000) (each such advance, together with any principal that has been added to the principal balance of such Term Loan Advance pursuant to Section 2.5(a)(ii), is referred to herein as a “Term Loan Advance” and collectively, the “Term Loan Advances”). The aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan Advances shall not, at any time, exceed the Term Loan Line plus any principal that has been added to the principal balance of such Term Loan Advance pursuant to Section 2.5(a)(ii).

(b) Repayment. The Term Loan Advances shall be “interest-only” until the Term Loan Maturity Date, with interest due and payable in accordance with Section 2.5(d) hereof. Borrower shall repay the Term Loan Advances on the Term Loan Maturity Date, including all outstanding principal and accrued and unpaid interest under the Term Loan Advances. After repayment, no Term Loan Advance may be reborrowed.

(c) Permitted Prepayment.

(i) Without duplication of any amounts paid pursuant to Section 2.3(e), if the Borrower desires to prepay the Term Loan Advances (including pursuant to the occurrence and continuance of a Change in Control event covered by Section 7.2(d)) on or prior to December 31, 2021 (such date, the “Make Whole Termination Date”) (and, for the avoidance of doubt, it is agreed by the parties hereto that Borrower shall have such option to so prepay in minimum increments of Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000), so long as Borrower delivers written notice to Agent of its election to prepay the applicable portion of the Term Loan Advances at least five (5) Business Days (or such shorter period agreed to by Agent in its sole reasonable discretion) prior to such prepayment), then Borrower shall pay to Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) an amount equal to (A) the outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan Advances being prepaid (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any principal that has been added to the principal balance of such Term Loan Advance pursuant to Section 2.5(a)(ii)), (B) the Make Whole Amount, (C) the applicable Prepayment Charge with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid, (D) the pro rata portion of the End of Term Charge with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid, and (E) all other outstanding sums, if any, that shall have become due and payable with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid, including interest at the Default Rate with respect to any past due amounts. Notwithstanding the foregoing and for the avoidance of doubt, no Make Whole Amount shall be required to be paid or owed by Borrower or any other Person in connection with any prepayment, repayment or payment of any of the Term Loan Advances or other Obligations after the Make Whole Termination Date. The parties hereto hereby acknowledge and agree that (A) in light of the impracticality and extreme difficulty of ascertaining actual damages, any Make Whole Amount is intended to be a reasonable calculation of the actual damages that would be suffered by the Lenders as a result of any such prepayment of the Term Loan Advances on or prior to the Make Whole Termination Date, and (B) any Make Whole Amount is not intended to act as a penalty or to punish Borrower for any such prepayment of the Term Loan Advances on or prior to the Make Whole Termination Date.

(ii) After the Make Whole Termination Date but prior to the Term Loan Maturity Date, Borrower shall have the option to make prepayments of the Term Loan Advances in minimum increments of Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000), provided Borrower (i) delivers written notice to Agent of its election to prepay the applicable portion of the Term Loan Advances at least five (5) Business Days (or such shorter period agreed to by Agent in its sole reasonable discretion) prior to such prepayment, and (ii) pays, on the date of such prepayment to Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) (A) the outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid interest with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any principal that has been added to the principal balance of such Term Loan Advance pursuant to Section 2.5(a)(ii)), (B) the applicable Prepayment Charge with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid, (C) the pro rata portion of the End of Term Charge with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid, and (D) all other outstanding sums, if any, that shall have become due and

 

2

payable with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid, including interest at the Default Rate with respect to any past due amounts. Borrower agrees that the Prepayment Charge is a reasonable calculation of the Lenders’ lost profits in view of the difficulties and impracticality of determining actual damages resulting from an early repayment of the Term Loan Advances.

(d) Mandatory Prepayment Upon an Acceleration. If the Term Loan Advances are accelerated by Agent following the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, Borrower shall immediately pay to the Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) an amount equal to the sum of (i) all outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid interest with respect to the Term Loan Advances, (ii) the Prepayment Charge with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid, (iii) the pro rata portion of the End of Term Charge with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid, and (iv) all other sums, if any, that shall have become due and payable with respect to the Term Loan Advances, including interest at the Default Rate with respect to any past due amounts.

(e) Prepayments On or Prior to Make Whole Termination Date. Without duplication of any amounts paid pursuant to Section 2.3(c)(i), in the event of any prepayment, refinancing, substitution or replacement of any of the Term Loan Advances on or prior to the Make Whole Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.3(d) (but without duplication of any amounts required to be paid pursuant to Section 2.3(d)), Borrower shall immediately pay to Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) an amount equal to the sum of (i) all outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid interest with respect to the Term Loan Advances, (ii) the Prepayment Charge with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid, (iii) the Make Whole Amount, (iv) the pro rata portion of the End of Term Charge with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid, and (v) all other sums, if any, that shall have become due and payable with respect to the Term Loan Advances, including interest at the Default Rate with respect to any past due amounts.

2.4 Intentionally Omitted.

2.5 Payment of Interest on the Credit Extensions.

(a) Interest Rates.

(i) Term Loan Cash Interest Rate. In addition to interest accrued pursuant to the Term Loan PIK Interest Rate, the principal balance (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any payment-in-kind interest added to principal pursuant to Section 2.5(a)(ii)) of each Term Loan Advance shall bear interest thereon at the Term Loan Cash Interest Rate based on a year consisting of 360 days, with interest computed daily based on the actual number of days elapsed. The Term Loan Cash Interest Rate will float and change on the day the Prime Rate changes from time to time.

(ii) Term Loan PIK Interest Rate. In addition to interest accrued pursuant to the Term Loan Cash Interest Rate, the principal balance of each Term Loan Advance shall bear interest thereon at the Term Loan PIK Interest Rate based on a year consisting of 360 days, with interest computed daily based on the actual number of days elapsed, which amount shall be added to the outstanding principal balance so as to increase

 

3

the outstanding principal balance of such Term Loan Advance on each payment date for such Term Loan Advance, which principal amount shall accrue interest payable as provided in Section 2.5(a)(i) and which accrued and unpaid amount shall be payable when the principal amount of the Term Loan Advance is payable in accordance with Section 2.3.

(b) Default Rate. Immediately upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, outstanding Obligations owing hereunder shall bear interest at a rate per annum which is five percent (5.00%) above the rate that is otherwise applicable thereto (the “Default Rate”) unless Agent, in its sole discretion, otherwise elects from time to time to impose a smaller increase. Fees and expenses which are required to be paid by Borrower pursuant to the Loan Documents (including, without limitation, the Expenses) but are not paid when due shall bear interest until paid at a rate equal to the highest rate applicable to the Obligations. Payment or acceptance of the increased interest rate provided in this Section 2.5(b) is not a permitted alternative to timely payment and shall not constitute a waiver of any Event of Default or otherwise prejudice or limit any rights or remedies of Agent or the Lenders.

(c) Adjustment to Interest Rate. Changes to the interest rate of any Credit Extension based on changes to the Prime Rate shall be effective on the effective date of any change to the Prime Rate and to the extent of any such change.

(d) Payment; Interest Computation. Interest is payable monthly on the Payment Date of each month in arrears and shall be computed on the basis of a three hundred sixty (360) day year for the actual number of days elapsed. In computing interest, (i) all payments received after 12:00 p.m. Pacific time on any day shall be deemed received at the opening of business on the next Business Day, and (ii) the date of the making of any Credit Extension shall be included and the date of payment shall be excluded; provided, however, that if any Credit Extension is repaid on the same day on which it is made, such day shall be included in computing interest on such Credit Extension.

2.6 Fees and Expenses.

(a) Facility Charge. Borrower shall pay to Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) the Facility Charge on the Effective Date.

(b) Expenses. Borrower shall pay to Agent (on behalf of itself and the Lenders) all reasonable documented out-of-pocket Expenses (including reasonable documented out-of-pocket attorneys’ fees and expenses for documentation and negotiation of this Agreement) incurred through and after the Effective Date, when due (or, if no stated due date, within five (5) Business Days upon written demand by Agent).

(c) Fees Fully Earned. Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or in a separate writing by Agent, Borrower shall not be entitled to any credit, rebate, or repayment of any fees earned by Agent pursuant to this Agreement notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement or the suspension or termination of the Lenders’ obligation to make loans and advances hereunder.

 

4

(d) Good Faith Deposit. Borrower has paid to Agent a good faith deposit of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) to initiate Agent’s due diligence review process (the “Due Diligence Fee”), which amount shall be applied to the non-legal Expenses on the Effective Date.

(e) End of Term Charge. On the earliest to occur of (i) the Term Loan Maturity Date, (ii) the date that Borrower prepays the outstanding Obligations (other than inchoate indemnification or reimbursement obligations and other obligations which, by their terms, survive termination of this Agreement) in full (or in part, as provided in this Agreement), or (iii) the date that the Obligations otherwise become due and payable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, Borrower shall pay Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) the pro rata portion of the End of Term Charge with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid at such time minus any portion of the End of Term Charge that has already been paid by Borrower pursuant to Section 2.3(c)(ii)(C). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document and for the avoidance of doubt, only the pro rata portion of the End of Term Charge with respect to the Term Loan Advances being prepaid at any time shall be due or payable. Notwithstanding the required payment date of such End of Term Charge, it shall be deemed earned by the Lenders as of the Effective Date. For the avoidance of doubt, if a payment hereunder becomes due and payable on a day that is not a Business Day, the due date thereof shall be the immediately preceding Business Day.

(f) Repayment Charges. Borrower agrees that any applicable Prepayment Charge, End of Term Charge and/or Make Whole Amount (collectively, the “Repayment Charges”) shall be presumed to be the liquidated damages sustained by each Lender as the result of the early termination, and Borrower agrees that it is reasonable under the circumstances currently existing and existing as of the Effective Date. The Repayment Charges shall also be payable in the event the Obligations (and/or this Agreement) are satisfied or released by foreclosure (whether by power of judicial proceeding), deed in lieu of foreclosure, or by any other means. Borrower expressly waives (to the fullest extent it may lawfully do so) the provisions of any present or future statute or law that prohibits or may prohibit the collection of the foregoing Repayment Charges in connection with any such acceleration. Borrower agrees (to the fullest extent that each may lawfully do so): (a) each of the Repayment Charges is reasonable and is the product of an arm’s length transaction between sophisticated business people, ably represented by counsel; (b) each of the Repayment Charges shall be payable notwithstanding the then prevailing market rates at the time payment is made; (c) there has been a course of conduct between the Lenders and Borrower giving specific consideration in this transaction for such agreement to pay the Repayment Charges as a charge (and not interest) in the event of prepayment or acceleration; (d) Borrower shall be estopped from claiming differently than as agreed to in this paragraph. Borrower expressly acknowledges that their agreement to pay each of the Repayment Charges to the Lenders as herein described was on the Effective Date and continues to be a material inducement to the Lenders to provide the Term Loan Advances.

2.7 Payments; Application of Payments; Debit of Accounts.

(a) All payments to be made by Borrower under any Loan Document shall be made in immediately available funds in Dollars, without setoff or counterclaim, before 12:00 p.m. Pacific time on the date when due. Payments of principal and/or interest received after 12:00 p.m. Pacific time are considered received at the opening of business on the next Business Day. When a payment is due on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment shall be due the next Business Day, and additional fees or interest, as applicable, shall continue to accrue until paid.

 

5

(b) Agent has the exclusive right, in its sole discretion, to determine the order and manner in which all payments with respect to the Obligations may be applied.

(c) The Agent will initiate debit entries to the Borrower’s account on behalf of the Lenders as authorized on the ACH Authorization (i) on each payment date of all periodic obligations payable to Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) under each Term Loan Advance and (ii) out-of-pocket legal fees and costs incurred by Agent or the Lenders in connection with this Agreement that are required to be paid pursuant to Section 2.6(b); provided that, with respect to clause (i) above, in the event that Agent informs Borrower that the Agent will not initiate a debit entry to Borrower’s account for a certain amount of the periodic obligations due on a specific payment date, Borrower shall pay to Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) such amount of periodic obligations in full in immediately available funds on such payment date; provided, further, that, with respect to clause (i) above, if the Agent informs Borrower that Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) will not initiate a debit entry as described above later than the date that is five (5) Business Days prior to such payment date, Borrower shall pay to Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) such amount of periodic obligations in full in immediately available funds on the date that is five (5) Business Days after the date on which Agent notifies Borrower of such; provided, further, that, with respect to clause (ii) above, in the event that the Agent informs Borrower that Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) will not initiate a debit entry to Borrower’s account for certain amount of such out-of-pocket legal fees and costs incurred by Agent or the Lenders that are required to be paid and are due pursuant to Section 2.6(b), Borrower shall pay to Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) such amount in full in immediately available funds within five (5) Business Days thereof.

(d) Each payment (including prepayment) on account of any fee and any reduction of the Term Loan Advances shall be made by Agent to the Lenders pro rata according to the Term Loan Commitments of the relevant Lender.

2.8 Taxes; Increased Costs. Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders each hereby agree to the terms and conditions set forth on Addendum 1 attached hereto.

 
3 	

CONDITIONS OF LOANS

3.1 Conditions Precedent. The Lenders’ obligation to make the Credit Extension is subject to the condition precedent that Agent shall have received, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent, such documents, and completion of such other matters, as Agent may reasonably deem necessary or appropriate, including, without limitation:

(a) duly executed signatures to the Loan Documents and the Control Agreements;

(b) the Operating Documents and long-form good standing certificates of Borrower certified by the Secretary of State (or equivalent agency) of Borrower’s jurisdiction of organization or formation and each jurisdiction in which Borrower is qualified to conduct business, each as of a date no earlier than thirty (30) days prior to the Effective Date;

 

6

(c) a secretary’s certificate of Borrower with respect to such Borrower’s Operating Documents, incumbency, specimen signatures and resolutions authorizing the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which it is a party;

(d) duly executed signatures to the completed Borrowing Resolutions for Borrower;

(e) certified copies, dated as of a recent date, of financing statement searches, as Agent may request, accompanied by written evidence (including any Uniform Commercial Code termination statements) that the Liens indicated in any such financing statements either constitute Permitted Liens or have been or, in connection with the initial Credit Extension, will be terminated or released;

(f) payoff and release documents in connection with the payoff and termination of the Borrower’s Indebtedness with and Liens in favor of Silicon Valley Bank;

(g) the Perfection Certificate of Borrower, together with the duly executed signature thereto;

(h) a legal opinion of Borrower’s counsel in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Agent;

(i) payment of the fees (including the Facility Charge and the Due Diligence Fee) and reasonable documented out-of-pocket Expenses of Agent and the Lenders then due and invoiced to Borrower prior to the date hereof as specified in Section 2.6 hereof;

(j) all certificates of insurance and copies of each insurance policy required hereunder; and

(k) such other documents as Agent may reasonably request.

3.2 Conditions Precedent to all Credit Extensions. The Lenders’ obligation to make each Credit Extension, including the initial Credit Extension, is subject to the following conditions precedent:

(a) timely receipt of an executed Payment/Advance Form and any materials and documents required by Section 3.4;

(b) the representations and warranties in this Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects on the date of the proposed Credit Extension and/or of the Payment/Advance Form, as applicable, and on the Funding Date of each Credit Extension; provided, however, that such materiality qualifier shall not be applicable to any representations and warranties that already are qualified or modified by materiality in the text thereof; and provided, further that those representations and warranties expressly referring to a specific date shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such date, and no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or immediately result from the Credit Extension. Each Credit Extension is Borrower’s representation and warranty on that date that the representations and warranties in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects as of such date; provided,

 

7

however, that such materiality qualifier shall not be applicable to any representations and warranties that already are qualified or modified by materiality in the text thereof; and provided, further that those representations and warranties expressly referring to a specific date shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such date; and

(c) Agent determines in its good faith business judgment that there has not been any Material Adverse Change.

3.3 Covenant to Deliver. Except as set forth in Section 6.15, Borrower agrees to deliver to Agent each item required to be delivered to Agent under this Agreement as a condition precedent to any Credit Extension. Borrower expressly agrees that a Credit Extension made prior to the receipt by Agent of any such item shall not constitute a waiver by Agent or the Lenders of Borrower’s obligation to deliver such item, and the making of any Credit Extension in the absence of a required item shall be in each Lender’s sole discretion.

3.4 Procedures for Borrowing. Subject to the prior satisfaction of all other applicable conditions to the making of a Term Loan Advance set forth in this Agreement, to obtain a Term Loan Advance, Borrower shall notify Agent (which notice shall be irrevocable) by electronic mail by 12:00 noon Pacific time one (1) Business Day in advance of the Funding Date of the Term Loan Advance. Such notice shall be in a written format acceptable to Agent in its good faith business judgment that is executed by an Authorized Signer. Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to Agent in its good faith business judgment that the Board has approved that such Authorized Signer may provide such notices and request Term Loan Advances. In connection with such notification, Borrower must promptly deliver to Agent by electronic mail or other format acceptable to Agent a completed Payment/Advance Form together with such other reports and information as Agent may, in its good faith business judgment request, executed by an Authorized Signer. The Lenders shall fund the Term Loan Advance in the manner requested by the Payment/Advance Form provided that each of the conditions precedent to such Term Loan Advance is satisfied as of the requested Funding Date.

 
4 	

CREATION OF SECURITY INTEREST

4.1 Grant of Security Interest. Borrower hereby grants Agent, to secure the payment and performance in full of all of the Obligations, a continuing security interest in, and pledges to Agent, the Collateral, wherever located, whether now owned or hereafter acquired or arising, and all proceeds and products thereof.

If this Agreement is terminated, Agent’s Lien in the Collateral shall continue until the Obligations (other than inchoate indemnity or reimbursement obligations or other obligations which, by their terms, survive termination of this Agreement) are repaid in full in cash. Upon payment in full in cash of the Obligations (other than inchoate indemnity or reimbursement obligations or other obligations which, by their terms, survive termination of this Agreement) and at such time as the Lenders’ obligation to make Credit Extensions has terminated, Agent shall, at the sole cost and expense of Borrower, (a) release its Liens in the Collateral and all rights therein shall revert to Borrower and (b) execute and deliver such instruments, documents and filings Borrower reasonably requests to evidence such termination and release. In the event (x) all Obligations (other than inchoate indemnity or reimbursement obligations or other obligations which, by their terms, survive termination of this Agreement) are satisfied in full, and (y) this Agreement is terminated, Agent shall terminate the security interest granted herein.

 

8

4.2 Priority of Security Interest. Borrower represents, warrants, and covenants that the security interest granted herein is and shall at all times continue to be a first priority, assuming that Agent has taken all actions required to be taken by Agent in order to perfect its security interest, perfected security interest in the Collateral (subject only to Permitted Liens that are permitted pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to have superior priority to Agent’s Lien under this Agreement). If Borrower shall acquire a commercial tort claim with an estimated value in excess of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000), Borrower shall promptly notify Agent in a writing signed by Borrower of the general details thereof and grant to Agent in such writing a security interest therein and in the proceeds thereof, all upon the terms of this Agreement, with such writing to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Agent.

4.3 Authorization to File Financing Statements. Borrower hereby authorizes Agent to file financing statements and other similar forms covering the Collateral, without notice to Borrower, with all appropriate jurisdictions to perfect or protect Agent’s interest or rights hereunder, including a notice that any disposition of the Collateral in violation of this Agreement, by either Borrower or any other Person, shall be deemed to violate the rights of Agent under the Code. Such financing statements and other similar forms may indicate the Collateral as “all assets of the Debtor” or words of similar effect, or as being of an equal or lesser scope, or with greater detail, all in Agent’s discretion.

 
5 	

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

Borrower represents and warrants as follows:

5.1 Due Organization, Authorization; Power and Authority. Borrower is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing as a Registered Organization in its jurisdiction of formation and is qualified and licensed to do business and is in good standing in any other jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership of property and other assets or business which it is engaged in requires that it be qualified except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on Borrower’s business. In connection with this Agreement, Borrower has delivered to Agent a completed certificate signed by Borrower entitled “Perfection Certificate” (the “Perfection Certificate”). Borrower represents and warrants to Agent that (a) Borrower’s exact legal name is that indicated on the Perfection Certificate and on the signature page hereof; (b) Borrower is an organization of the type and is organized or is incorporated in the jurisdiction set forth in the Perfection Certificate; (c) the Perfection Certificate accurately sets forth Borrower’s organizational identification number or accurately states that Borrower has none; (d) the Perfection Certificate accurately sets forth Borrower’s place of business, or, if more than one, its chief executive office as well as Borrower’s mailing address (if different than its chief executive office); (e) except as indicated on the Perfection Certificate, Borrower (and each of its predecessors) has not, in the past five (5) years, changed its jurisdiction of formation, organizational structure or type, or any organizational number assigned by its jurisdiction; and (f) all other information set forth on the Perfection Certificate pertaining to Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries is accurate and complete in all material respects (it being understood and agreed that Borrower may from time to time update certain information in the

 

9

Perfection Certificate after the Effective Date to the extent permitted by one or more specific provisions in this Agreement and provided that the Perfection Certificate shall be deemed to be updated to reflect the information provided in any notice that is required or permitted to be delivered (and is actually delivered) by Borrower to Agent). If Borrower is not now a Registered Organization but later becomes one, Borrower shall promptly notify Agent of such occurrence and provide Agent with Borrower’s organizational identification number.

The execution, delivery and performance by Borrower of the Loan Documents to which it is a party have been duly authorized, and do not (i) conflict with any of Borrower’s organizational documents, (ii) contravene, conflict with, constitute a default under or violate any material Requirement of Law, (iii) contravene, conflict or violate any applicable order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree, determination or award of any Governmental Authority by which Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their property or assets are bound, (iv) require any action by, filing, registration, or qualification with, or Governmental Approval from, any Governmental Authority (except financing statements filed in connection herewith, such Governmental Approvals which have already been obtained and are in full force and effect or are being obtained pursuant to Section 6.1(b)) or (v) conflict with, contravene, constitute a default or breach under, or result in or permit the termination or acceleration of, any material agreement by which Borrower is bound. Borrower is not in default under any agreement to which it is a party or by which it is bound in which the default could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on Borrower’s business.

5.2 Collateral. Borrower has good title to, rights in, and the power to transfer each item of the Collateral upon which it purports to grant a Lien under this Agreement and other Loan Documents, free and clear of any and all Liens except Permitted Liens. Borrower has no Collateral Accounts except for the Collateral Accounts described in the Perfection Certificate delivered to Agent in connection herewith and which Borrower has given Agent notice and taken such actions as are necessary to give Agent a perfected security interest therein, to the extent required by and pursuant to the terms of Section 6.8(c). To Borrower’s knowledge, the Accounts are bona fide, existing obligations of the Account Debtors.

Other than Collateral with a value of no more than Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000), the Collateral is not in the possession of any third party bailee (such as a warehouse) except as otherwise provided in the Perfection Certificate or as notified to Agent by Borrower in writing from time to time as required by Section 7.2. None of the components of the Collateral with a value in excess of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) (other than mobile equipment in the possession of Borrower’s employees) shall be maintained at locations other than as provided in the Perfection Certificate or as permitted pursuant to Section 7.2.

All Inventory is in all material respects of good and marketable quality, free from material defects. Borrower is the sole owner of the Intellectual Property which it owns or purports to own except for (a) licenses permitted to be granted by Borrower pursuant to this Agreement, (b) over-the-counter software that is commercially available to the public, and (c) Intellectual Property licensed to Borrower and noted on the Perfection Certificate or otherwise disclosed to Agent. Each Patent, Copyright and Trademark which it owns or purports to own and which is material to Borrower’s business is valid and enforceable, and no part of the Intellectual Property which Borrower owns or purports to own and which is material to Borrower’s business has been judged invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part. To Borrower’s knowledge, no claim has been made in writing to Borrower alleging that any part of the Intellectual Property with any material value, violates the rights of any third party except to the extent such claim would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on Borrower’s business.

 

10

5.3 Intentionally Omitted.

5.4 Litigation. Except as disclosed in the Perfection Certificate delivered on or prior to the Effective Date, there are no actions or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of any Responsible Officer, threatened in writing by or against Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries which, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to result in liability or costs to Borrower in excess of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) individually or in the aggregate.

5.5 Financial Statements; Financial Condition. All consolidated financial statements for Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries delivered to Agent by Borrower by submission to the Financial Statement Repository or otherwise submitted to Agent fairly present in all material respects Borrower’s consolidated financial condition and Borrower’s consolidated results of operations as of the date thereof and for the periods presented, except that unaudited financial statements may be subject to normal adjustments and need not contain adjustments for stock compensation or footnotes. There has not been any material deterioration in Borrower’s consolidated financial condition since the date of the most recent financial statements submitted to the Financial Statement Repository or otherwise submitted to Agent by Borrower.

5.6 Solvency. The fair saleable value of Borrower’s consolidated assets (including goodwill minus disposition costs) exceeds the fair value of Borrower’s liabilities; Borrower is not left with unreasonably small capital after the transactions in this Agreement; and Borrower is able to pay its debts (including trade debts) as they mature.

5.7 Regulatory Compliance. Borrower is not an “investment company” or a company “controlled” by an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Borrower is not engaged as one of its important activities in extending credit for margin stock (under Regulations X, T and U of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors). Borrower (a) has complied in all material respects with all applicable Requirements of Law, and (b) has not violated any applicable Requirements of Law the violation of which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on its business. None of Borrower’s or any of its Subsidiaries’ properties or assets has been used by Borrower or any Subsidiary or, to Borrower’s actual knowledge, by previous Persons, in disposing, producing, storing, treating, or transporting any hazardous substance other than legally. Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries have obtained all consents, approvals and authorizations of, made all declarations or filings with, and given all notices to, all Governmental Authorities that are necessary to continue their respective businesses as currently conducted.

5.8 Subsidiaries; Investments. Borrower does not own any stock, partnership, or other ownership interest or other equity securities except for Permitted Investments.

5.9 Tax Returns and Payments; Pension Contributions. Borrower has timely filed or has obtained extensions for filing all required tax returns and reports required to be filed by Borrower, and Borrower has timely paid or has obtained extensions for all foreign, federal, state

 

11

and local taxes, assessments, deposits and contributions owed by Borrower except (a) to the extent such taxes are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings promptly instituted and diligently conducted, so long as such reserve or other appropriate provision, if any, as shall be required in conformity with GAAP shall have been made therefor, or (b) if such taxes, assessments, deposits and contributions do not exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) individually or in the aggregate.

To the extent Borrower defers payment of any contested taxes, Borrower shall (i) notify Agent in writing of the commencement of, and any material development in, the proceedings, and (ii) post bonds or take any other steps required to prevent the Governmental Authority levying such contested taxes from obtaining a Lien upon any of the Collateral that is other than a “Permitted Lien.” Borrower is unaware of any claims or adjustments proposed for any of Borrower’s prior tax years which could result in additional taxes becoming due and payable by Borrower in excess of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000). Borrower has paid all amounts necessary to fund all present pension, profit sharing and deferred compensation plans in accordance with their terms, and Borrower has not withdrawn from participation in, and has not permitted partial or complete termination of, or permitted the occurrence of any other event with respect to, any such plan which could reasonably be expected to result in any material liability of Borrower, including any liability to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or its successors or any other governmental agency in excess of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000).

5.10 Use of Proceeds. Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions solely to pay off and terminate Borrower’s current secured Indebtedness and as working capital and to fund its general business requirements and not for personal, family, household or agricultural purposes.

5.11 Full Disclosure. No written representation, warranty or other statement of Borrower in any report, certificate or written statement submitted to the Financial Statement Repository or otherwise submitted to Agent by Borrower, as of the date such representation, warranty, or other statement was made, taken together with all such written reports, written certificates and written statements submitted to the Financial Statement Repository or otherwise submitted to Agent by Borrower, contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements contained in the reports, certificates or written statements not misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made (it being recognized by Agent that the projections and forecasts provided by Borrower in good faith and based upon reasonable assumptions are not viewed as facts and that actual results during the period or periods covered by such projections and forecasts may materially differ from the projected or forecasted results).

5.12 Definition of “Knowledge.” For purposes of the Loan Documents, whenever a representation or warranty is made to Borrower’s knowledge or awareness, to the “best of” Borrower’s knowledge, or with a similar qualification, knowledge or awareness means the actual knowledge, after reasonable investigation, of any Responsible Officer.

 

12

6 	

AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS

Borrower shall do all of the following:

6.1 Government Compliance.

(a) Maintain its and (except as permitted under Section 7.3) all its Subsidiaries’ legal existence and good standing in their respective jurisdictions of formation and maintain qualification in each jurisdiction in which the failure to so qualify would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on Borrower’s business or operations. Borrower shall comply, and have each Subsidiary comply, in all material respects, with all laws, ordinances and regulations to which it is subject.

(b) Obtain all of the Governmental Approvals necessary for the performance by Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party and the grant of a security interest to Agent in all of the Collateral. Borrower shall promptly provide copies of any such obtained Governmental Approvals to Agent.

(c) Maintain all Governmental Approvals for which any revocation, rescission, suspension, modification or non-renewal (i) causes, or could reasonably be expected to cause, a Material Adverse Change, or (ii) materially and adversely affects the legal qualifications of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to hold such Governmental Approval in any applicable jurisdiction and such revocation, rescission, suspension, modification or non-renewal could reasonably be expect to materially and adversely affect the status of or legal qualifications of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to hold any material Governmental Approval in any other jurisdiction.

6.2 Financial Statements, Reports. Provide Agent with the following by submitting to the Financial Statement Repository or otherwise submitting to Agent:

(a) promptly following Agent’s reasonable request, (A) monthly accounts receivable agings, aged by invoice date, (B) monthly accounts payable agings, aged by invoice date, and outstanding or held check registers, if any, (C) monthly reconciliations of accounts receivable agings (aged by invoice date), (D) transaction reports, Deferred Revenue reports, and a general ledger, or (E) a pipeline report and detailed capital expenditure report, each in a form reasonably acceptable to Agent;

(b) as soon as available, but no later than thirty (30) days after the last day of each month (other than the last month of any fiscal quarter), a company prepared consolidated balance sheet and income statement, covering Borrower’s and its Subsidiaries’ operations for such month in a form reasonably acceptable to Agent (the “Monthly Financial Statements”);

(c) as soon as available, and in any event within forty five (45) days following the end of each fiscal quarter of Borrower, unaudited interim and year-to-date financial statements as of the end of such calendar quarter (prepared on a consolidated basis), including balance sheet and related statements of income and cash flows, certified by Borrower’s Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer to the effect that they have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, except (i) for the absence of footnotes, and (ii) that they are subject to normal year-end adjustments (the “Quarterly Financial Statements”);

 

13

(d) within thirty (30) days after the last day of each month and together with the Monthly Financial Statements and the Quarterly Financial Statements, if applicable, a completed Compliance Statement substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto;

(e) within the earlier of (i) sixty (60) days after the end of each fiscal year of Borrower, or (ii) seven (7) days after approval of the same by the Board, and within ten (10) Business Days of approval by the Board of any updates or amendments thereto, (A) annual operating budgets (including income statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements, by month) for the then-current fiscal year of Borrower, and (B) annual financial projections for the then-current fiscal year (on a quarterly basis), in each case as approved by the Board, together with any related business forecasts used in the preparation of such annual financial projections;

(f) as soon as available, and in any event within one hundred eighty (180) days following the end of Borrower’s fiscal year, audited consolidated financial statements prepared under GAAP, consistently applied, together with an unqualified opinion (other than a going concern qualification with respect to (i) Borrower’s liquidity only typical for venture backed companies similar to Borrower or (ii) the upcoming maturity of any series of indebtedness or termination of any revolving commitment within twelve (12) months following the date such opinion is rendered) on the financial statements from Deloitte, any “Big Four” accounting firm or any other independent certified public accounting firm reasonably acceptable to Agent (the “Annual Financial Statements”);

(g) as soon as available, but no later than fifteen (15) days after each meeting of the Board, copies of board packets provided to the Board in connection with each such meeting; provided that (i) any information that may be subject to attorney-client privilege (if access to such information could reasonably be expected to adversely affect the attorney-client privilege between Borrower and its counsel), (ii) any information subject to restrictions under any applicable export control laws and regulations, or (iii) any information that could reasonably be expected to result in a conflict of interest between Agent or a Lender and Borrower or any Guarantor with respect to matters concerning this financing transaction between Agent, the Lenders, Borrower, and any Guarantor, may be redacted or omitted from any such materials;

(h) in the event that Borrower becomes subject to the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act within five (5) Business Days of filing, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by Borrower and/or any Guarantor with the SEC, any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of the SEC or with any national securities exchange, or distributed to its shareholders, as the case may be. Documents required to be delivered pursuant to the terms hereof (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto, on Borrower’s website on the internet at Borrower’s website address; provided, however, Borrower shall promptly notify Agent in writing (which may be by electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents;

(i) prompt report of any legal actions pending or threatened in writing against Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that could result in damages or costs to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of, individually or in the aggregate, One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) or more;

 

14

(j) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, as the case may be, copies of any proxy statements, financial statements or reports that Borrower has made available to holders of its preferred stock; and

(k) promptly, from time to time, such other financial information regarding Borrower or compliance with the terms of any Loan Documents as reasonably requested by Agent.

Any submission by Borrower of a Compliance Statement submitted to the Financial Statement Repository pursuant to this Section 6.2 or otherwise submitted to Agent shall be deemed to be a representation by Borrower that (i) as of the date of such Compliance Statement, the information and calculations set forth therein are true, accurate and correct, (ii) as of the end of the compliance period set forth in such submission, Borrower is in complete compliance with all required covenants except as noted in such Compliance Statement, or otherwise disclosed in writing to Agent by Borrower, (iii) as of the date of such submission, no Events of Default have occurred or are continuing except as noted in such Compliance Statement or otherwise disclosed in writing to Agent by Borrower, (iv) all representations and warranties other than any representations or warranties that are made as of a specific date in Article 5 are true and correct in all material respects as of the date of such submission except as noted in such Compliance Statement, or otherwise disclosed in writing to Agent by Borrower, (v) as of the date of such submission, Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has timely filed all required tax returns and reports, and Borrower has timely paid all foreign, federal, state and local taxes, assessments, deposits and contributions owed by Borrower except as otherwise permitted pursuant to the terms of Section 5.9, and (vi) as of the date of such submission, no Liens have been levied or claims made against Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries relating to unpaid employee payroll or benefits of which Borrower has not previously provided written notification to Agent.

Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything else to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, documents required to be delivered under this Section 6.2 (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) are deemed to have been delivered on the earliest date on which (y) such documents are posted publicly by the SEC or otherwise, or (z) Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto, on Borrower’s website on the Internet at Borrower’s website address.

6.3 Intentionally Omitted.

6.4 Intentionally Omitted.

6.5 Taxes; Pensions. Timely file or obtain extensions for filing, and require each of its Subsidiaries to timely file or obtain extensions for filing, all required tax returns and reports required to be filed by Borrower or such Subsidiary and timely pay or obtain valid extensions for paying, and require each of its Subsidiaries to timely pay or obtain valid extensions for paying, all foreign, federal, state and local taxes, assessments, deposits and contributions owed by Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries, except pursuant to the terms of Section 5.9 hereof, and shall deliver to Agent, on demand, appropriate certificates attesting to such payments, and pay all amounts necessary to fund all present pension, profit sharing and deferred compensation plans in accordance with their terms.

 

15

6.6 Access to Collateral; Books and Records.

(a) At reasonable times, on five (5) Business Days’ prior written notice (provided no notice is required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing), Agent, or its agents, shall have the right, at reasonable times during Borrower’s normal business hours (provided that if an Event of Default has occurred, the inspection may take place outside of normal business hours if deemed necessary by Agent in its good faith business judgment), to inspect the Collateral and the right to audit and copy Borrower’s Books. The foregoing inspections and audits shall be conducted no more often than once every twelve (12) months, unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing in which case such inspections and audits shall occur as often as Agent shall determine is necessary. The foregoing inspections and audits shall be conducted at Borrower’s expense and the charge therefor shall be One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) per person per day (or such higher amount as shall represent Agent’s then-current standard charge for the same), plus reasonable documented out-of-pocket expenses.

(b) In the event Borrower and Agent schedule an audit more than eight (8) days in advance, and Borrower cancels or seeks to reschedule the audit with less than eight (8) days written notice to Agent, then (without limiting any of Agent’s rights or remedies) Borrower shall pay Agent a fee of Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000) plus any reasonable documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Agent to compensate Agent for the anticipated costs and expenses of the cancellation or rescheduling.

6.7 Insurance.

(a) Keep its business and the Collateral insured for risks and in amounts customary for companies of Borrower’s size in Borrower’s industry and location and as Agent may reasonably request. Insurance policies shall be in a form, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies that are not Affiliates of Borrower, and in amounts that are reasonably satisfactory to Agent. All property policies shall have a lender’s loss payable endorsement showing Agent as lender loss payee. All liability policies shall show, or have endorsements showing, Agent as an additional insured. Agent shall be named as lender loss payee and/or additional insured with respect to any such insurance providing coverage in respect of any Collateral.

(b) Ensure that proceeds payable under any property policy are, at Agent’s option after an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, payable to Agent on account of the Obligations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (a) so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Borrower shall have the option of applying up to Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) per calendar year, of the proceeds of any insurance policy toward the replacement or repair of destroyed or damaged property; provided that any such replaced or repaired property (i) shall be of equal or like value as the replaced or repaired Collateral and (ii) shall be deemed Collateral in which Agent has been granted a first priority security interest subject to Permitted Liens, and (b) after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, all proceeds payable under such casualty policy shall, at the option of Agent, be payable to Agent on account of Obligations then due.

(c) If requested by Agent in its good faith business judgment, Borrower shall deliver certified copies of insurance policies and evidence of all premium payments. Each provider

 

16

of any such insurance required under this Section 6.7 shall agree, by endorsement upon the policy or policies issued by it or by independent instruments furnished to Agent, that it will give Agent twenty (20) days (ten (10) days for non-payment of premium) prior written notice before any such policy or policies shall be materially altered or cancelled. If Borrower fails to, in a timely manner, obtain insurance as required under this Section 6.7 or to pay any amount or furnish any required proof of payment to third persons and Agent, Agent may make all or part of such payment or obtain such insurance policies required in this Section 6.7, and take any action under the policies Agent, in its good faith business judgment, deems prudent.

6.8 Accounts.

(a) Intentionally Omitted.

(b) Intentionally Omitted.

(c) Borrower shall provide Agent five (5) days prior written notice before establishing any Collateral Account. For each Collateral Account that Borrower at any time maintains, Borrower shall, within five (5) days of the creation of such account (or such later date as reasonably agreed by Agent), cause the applicable bank or financial institution at or with which any Collateral Account is maintained to execute and deliver a Control Agreement or other appropriate instrument with respect to such Collateral Account to perfect Agent’s Lien in such Collateral Account in accordance with the terms hereunder which Control Agreement may not be terminated without the prior written consent of Agent (provided that for any new Collateral Account that is obtained as a result of a Permitted Acquisition, the Borrower shall have sixty (60) days from the date of such Permitted Acquisition to deliver such Control Agreement (or such later date as reasonably agreed by Agent)). The provisions of the previous sentence shall not apply to deposit accounts (i)(A) exclusively used for payroll, payroll taxes, and other employee wage and benefit payments to or for the benefit of Borrower’s employees and identified to Agent by Borrower as such, which for the avoidance of doubt, shall not, at any time contain cash in excess of two pay periods’ worth of Borrower’s payroll obligations or (B) mentioned in clause (n) of the definition of “Permitted Liens” (such deposit accounts in clauses (i)(A) and (i)(B), collectively, the “Excluded Accounts”), (ii) on or prior to the date set forth in Section 6.15(c), the Foreign Accounts and Rocket Canada’s account at Silicon Valley Bank listed on the Perfection Certificate delivered to Agent on or prior to the Effective Date or (iii) any Collateral Account that is located outside the United States of America where a Control Agreement or other appropriate instrument is not required by such jurisdiction to perfect Agent’s Lien in such Collateral Account.

6.9 Intentionally Omitted.

6.10 Protection of Intellectual Property Rights. Use commercially reasonable efforts to (i) protect, defend and maintain the validity and enforceability of its Intellectual Property with any material value; (ii) promptly advise Agent in writing of material infringements or any other event that could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the value of its Intellectual Property with any material value; and (iii) not allow any Intellectual Property material to Borrower’s business to be abandoned, forfeited or dedicated to the public without Agent’s written consent. Together with the delivery of any Compliance Statement required to be delivered pursuant to Section 6.2(d), the Borrower shall provide a list of (a) any Patents, Trademarks,

 

17

Copyrights or mask works, in each case, that are owned by such Borrower that are registered (or any application of the foregoing filed) by such Borrower with the United States of America Patent and Trademark Office or the United States of America Copyright Office during the period covered by the Compliance Statement and not previously disclosed in writing to the Agent. Thereafter, upon the written request of Agent, the Borrower shall promptly execute such intellectual property security agreements and other documents and take such other actions as Agent may request in its good faith business judgment to perfect and maintain a first priority perfected security interest (subject to Permitted Liens) in favor of Agent in such registered or applied for intellectual property.

6.11 Litigation Cooperation. From the date hereof and continuing through the termination of this Agreement, make available to Agent, without expense to Agent, Borrower and its officers, employees and agents and Borrower’s books and records, to the extent that Agent may deem them reasonably necessary to prosecute or defend any third-party suit or proceeding instituted by or against Agent with respect to any Collateral or relating to Borrower.

6.12 Intentionally Omitted.

6.13 Formation or Acquisition of Subsidiaries. Notwithstanding and without limiting the negative covenants contained in Sections 7.3 and 7.7 hereof and subject to the post-closing period set forth in Section 6.15 with respect to any Subsidiary of Parent that is located outside the United States of America, within thirty (30) days (or such later date as reasonably agreed by Agent) of the date on which Borrower or any Guarantor (i) forms any direct or indirect Subsidiary or acquires any direct or indirect Subsidiary after the Effective Date (including, without limitation, pursuant to a Division, but for the avoidance of doubt, not for a Subsidiary that the Borrower designates by written notice to the Agent as an Immaterial Subsidiary) or (ii) informs the Agent that an Immaterial Subsidiary shall no longer be designated an Immaterial Subsidiary, Borrower and such Guarantor shall (a) cause such Subsidiary to provide to Agent a joinder to this Agreement to become a co-borrower hereunder or a Guaranty to become a Guarantor hereunder, together with such appropriate financing statements and/or Control Agreements (to the extent required by Section 6.8(c)), in each case, as applicable, all in form and substance satisfactory to Agent, in its good faith business judgment (including being sufficient to grant Agent a first priority Lien (subject to Permitted Liens) in and to the assets of such newly formed, acquired or designated Subsidiary), (b) provide to Agent appropriate certificates and powers and financing statements, pledging all of the direct or beneficial ownership interest in such Subsidiary in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Agent; and (c) provide to Agent all other documentation in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Agent in its good faith business judgment, including one or more opinions of counsel reasonably satisfactory to Agent, which in its opinion is appropriate with respect to the execution and delivery of the applicable documentation referred to above, in each case, as reasonably requested in writing by Agent (provided that no opinion shall be requested or required from Borrower, any Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries in any jurisdiction where it is not customary for a borrower’s or guarantor’s counsel to provide such an opinion). Any document, agreement, or instrument executed or issued pursuant to this Section 6.13 (other than any of the foregoing that are not executed by the Borrower, including any financing statement) shall be a Loan Document.

6.14 Further Assurances. Execute any further instruments and take further action as Agent reasonably requests to perfect or continue Agent’s Lien in the Collateral or to effect the

 

18

purposes of this Agreement. Deliver to Agent, within five (5) Business Days after the same are sent or received by Borrower, copies of all material correspondence, reports, documents and other filings with any Governmental Authority regarding compliance with or maintenance of Governmental Approvals or Requirements of Law, in each case, that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.

6.15 Post-Closing Conditions.

(a) As soon as possible, but no later than the date that is thirty (30) days after the Effective Date (or such later date as reasonably agreed by Agent), Borrower shall use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver to Agent, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Agent in its good faith business judgment, a landlord’s consent in favor of Agent for each of Borrower’s leased locations at (i) 3881 McGowen Street, Long Beach, CA 90808, (ii) Mid-Atlantic Regional Spaceport, NASA Wallops Flight Facility, Wallops Island, Accomack County, Virginia, and (iii) 7396 Aerospace Gateway, Wallops Island, Accomack County, Virginia 23337, by the respective landlord thereof, together with the duly executed signatures thereto.

(b) As soon as possible, but no later than the date that is thirty (30) days after the Effective Date (or such later date as reasonably agreed by Agent), Borrower shall deliver to Agent, evidence reasonably satisfactory to Agent that the insurance policies and endorsements required by Section 6.7 hereof are in full force and effect, together with appropriate evidence showing lender loss payable and/or additional insured clauses or endorsements in favor of Agent.

(c) As soon as possible, but no later than the date that is sixty (60) days after the Effective Date (or such later date as reasonably agreed by the Agent), Borrower shall deliver to Agent:

(i) a Guaranty executed by Rocket NZ (under which Rocket NZ provides a guaranty of the obligations of each Borrower under this Agreement (and provides, amongst other customary things, representations, warranties and covenants equivalent to those made by each Borrower under this Agreement, as amended to reflect, among other customary things, the fact that (A) Rocket NZ is (1) a company incorporated in New Zealand and (2) a guarantor (instead of a co-borrower) and (B) its collateral is located in New Zealand and lien creation, perfection and priority actions are governed by New Zealand law));

(ii) a joinder agreement executed by Rocket Canada under which Rocket Canada agrees to become party to this Agreement as a Borrower (and the parties to this Agreement agree that certain amendments will need to be made to the covenants and other provisions of this Agreement to reflect Rocket Canada’s applicable jurisdiction of incorporation, and in connection therewith the parties agree to negotiate in good faith to agree such amendments promptly after the Effective Date);

(iii) a general security deed governed by New Zealand law executed by Rocket NZ on terms equivalent to the security granted by the Borrowers provided under section 4.1 of this Agreement, with changes as are customary in New Zealand law security documents;

 

19

(iv) a specific security deed governed by New Zealand law executed by Parent which is on terms equivalent to the security granted under the Pledge Agreement, with changes as are customary in New Zealand law security documents;

(v) a general security agreement governed by the laws of the Province of Ontario executed by Rocket Canada on terms equivalent to the security granted by the Borrowers provided under section 4.1 of this Agreement, with changes as are customary in security documents governed by the laws of the Province of Ontario;

(vi) if reasonably required by the Agent and subject to advice from the parties’ respective tax advisors, a securities pledge agreement governed by the laws of the Province of Ontario executed by the applicable Borrower on terms equivalent to the security granted under the Pledge Agreement, with changes as are customary in security documents governed by the laws of the Province of Ontario;

(vii) a director’s certificate from a director of Rocket NZ in the form provided by Agent’s counsel (provided such form is customary in New Zealand), with the attachments referred to in that form;

(viii) a director’s certificate from a director of Rocket Canada in the form provided by Agent’s counsel (provided such form is customary in Canada), with the attachments referred to in that form;

(ix) all information required for the Agent to: (x) file a financing statement on the New Zealand Personal Property Securities Register in respect of the security documents referred to in paragraphs (iii) and (iv) above, and (y) file a financing statement pursuant to the Personal Property Security Act (Ontario) and/or the Personal Property Security Act (British Columbia) in respect of the security documents referred to in paragraphs (v) and (vi) above, in each case with the priority required by the Agent;

(x) reasonably satisfactory searches of the New Zealand Personal Property Securities Register of Rocket NZ and Parent and reasonably satisfactory searches of the Personal Property Security Act (Ontario) and/or the Personal Property Security Act (British Columbia) of Rocket Canada;

(xi) reasonably satisfactory searches of the New Zealand Companies Office in relation to Rocket NZ;

(xii) reasonably satisfactory searches of the High Court of New Zealand in relation to Rocket NZ and Parent;

(xiii) a certificate of good standing or compliance for the provinces of Ontario and British Columbia in relation to Rocket Canada;

 

20

(xiv) all documents and other evidence reasonably requested by the Agent or a Lender (through the Agent) in order for the Agent or the Lender to carry out all necessary “know your customer” or other similar checks in relation to Rocket NZ and Rocket Canada and each of their respective authorised signatories under all applicable laws and regulations where such information is not already available to the recipient;

(xv) the original share certificates (if any) and a blank signed and undated share transfer form for all of the issued shares in Rocket NZ and a certified copy of the share register for Rocket NZ including a notation of the Agent’s interest; and

(xvi) the original share certificates (if any) and, solely to the extent there is an original share certificate, a blank signed and undated share transfer form, in each case, for all of the issued shares in Rocket Canada; and

the Borrower agrees that the Agent’s counsel shall provide a legal opinion in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Agent (which, for the avoidance of doubt, if the Agent’s counsel does not timely provide such a legal opinion, no default or Event of Default under the Loan Documents shall occur or exist).

(d) As soon as possible, but no later than the date that is sixty (60) days after the Effective Date (or such later date as reasonably agreed by Agent), Borrower shall deliver to Agent a good standing certificate of Parent certified by the Secretary of State of California.

 
7 	

NEGATIVE COVENANTS

Borrower shall not do any of the following without Agent’s prior written consent:

7.1 Dispositions. Convey, sell, lease, transfer, assign, or otherwise dispose of (including, without limitation, pursuant to a Division) (collectively, “Transfer”), or permit any of its Subsidiaries to Transfer, all or any part of its business or property, except for Transfers (a) of Inventory in the ordinary course of business; (b) of worn-out, surplus or obsolete Equipment that is, in the reasonable judgment of Borrower, no longer economically practicable to maintain or useful in the ordinary course of business of Borrower; (c) consisting of Permitted Liens and Permitted Investments; (d) consisting of the sale or issuance of any stock of Borrower permitted under Section 7.2 of this Agreement; (e) consisting of Borrower’s use or transfer of money or Cash Equivalents in a manner that is not prohibited by the terms of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents; (f) of non-exclusive licenses for the use of the property of Borrower or its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business and licenses that could not result in a legal transfer of title of the licensed property but that may be exclusive in respects other than territory and that may be exclusive as to territory only as to discreet geographical areas outside of the United States; and (g) of assets not otherwise permitted under this Section 7.1 with a value not to exceed Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) in the aggregate in any fiscal year.

7.2 Changes in Business, Management, Control, or Business Locations. (a) Engage in or permit any of its Subsidiaries to engage in any business other than the businesses currently engaged in by Borrower and such Subsidiary, as applicable, or reasonably related thereto, or a natural extension thereof; (b) liquidate or dissolve; (c) fail to provide notice to Agent of any Key Person departing from or ceasing to be employed by Borrower within ten (10) Business Days after his or her departure from Borrower; or (d) permit or suffer any Change in Control; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the consummation of the transactions pursuant to the De-SPAC Agreement shall be permitted.

 

21

Borrower shall not, without at least fifteen (15) days prior written notice to Agent: (1) add any new offices or business locations, including warehouses (unless such new offices or business locations contain less than Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) in Borrower’s assets or property) or deliver any portion of the Collateral valued, individually or in the aggregate, in excess of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) to a bailee at a location other than to a bailee and at a location already disclosed in the Perfection Certificate or of which Borrower has previously notified Agent of in writing pursuant to this Section 7.2, (2) change its jurisdiction of organization, (3) change its organizational structure or type, (4) change its legal name, or (5) change any organizational number (if any) assigned by its jurisdiction of organization. If Borrower intends to add any new offices or business locations, including warehouses, containing in excess of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) of Borrower’s assets or property, then Borrower will use commercially reasonable efforts for a period of thirty (30) days to cause the landlord of any such new offices or business locations, including warehouses, to execute and deliver a landlord consent in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Agent. If Borrower intends to deliver any portion of the Collateral valued, individually or in the aggregate, in excess of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) to a bailee, and Agent and such bailee are not already parties to a bailee agreement governing both the Collateral and the location to which Borrower intends to deliver the Collateral, then Borrower will use commercially reasonable efforts for a period of thirty (30) days to cause such bailee to execute and deliver a bailee agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Agent.

7.3 Mergers or Acquisitions. Merge or consolidate, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to merge or consolidate, with any other Person, or acquire, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to acquire, all or substantially all of the capital stock or property of another Person (including, without limitation, by the formation of any Subsidiary or pursuant to a Division), in each case, other than Permitted Acquisitions and the consummation of the transactions pursuant to the De-SPAC Agreement. A Subsidiary may (i) merge or consolidate into another Subsidiary or into Borrower or (ii) dissolve or liquidate so long as all of such Subsidiary’s assets are transferred to Borrower.

7.4 Indebtedness. Create, incur, assume, or be liable for any Indebtedness, or permit any Subsidiary to do so, other than Permitted Indebtedness.

7.5 Encumbrance. Create, incur, allow, or suffer any Lien on any of its property, or assign or convey any right to receive income, including the sale of any Accounts, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so, except, in each case, for Permitted Liens, or permit any Collateral not to be subject to the first priority security interest granted herein (other than Permitted Liens which may have priority over Agent’s Liens in the Collateral in accordance with applicable law).

7.6 Maintenance of Collateral Accounts. Maintain any Collateral Account except pursuant to the terms of Section 6.8(c) hereof.

7.7 Distributions; Investments. (a) Pay any dividends or make any distribution or payment or redeem, retire or purchase any capital stock provided that (i) Borrower may convert

 

22

any of its convertible securities into other securities pursuant to the terms of such convertible securities or otherwise in exchange thereof and make cash payments in lieu of fractional shares in connection with any such conversions, (ii) Borrower may pay dividends solely in common stock, (iii) Borrower may repurchase the stock or other equity interests of current or former employees, consultants or directors (their spouses, trusts, heirs and estates) pursuant to or otherwise in connection with stock repurchase agreements, option agreements or similar agreements (A) so long as an Event of Default does not exist at the time of any such repurchase and would not exist immediately after giving effect to any such repurchase, provided that the aggregate amount of all such repurchases does not exceed Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) per fiscal year or (B) regardless of whether an Event of Default exists, where the consideration for such repurchase is solely the cancellation of indebtedness owing to Borrower, (iv) Borrower may repurchase stock or other equity interests from employees, consultants or directors in connection with secondary sales where the consideration for such repurchase is the proceeds of the issuance of Borrower’s equity interests consummated immediately prior or substantially contemporaneously with such repurchase, and (v) Borrower may redeem from members of its management team, shares of its common stock in an aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000,000 in connection with the consummation of the transactions pursuant to the De-SPAC Agreement; or (b) directly or indirectly make any Investment (including, without limitation, by the formation of any Subsidiary) other than Permitted Investments, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Subsidiaries of Borrower shall be permitted to pay dividends to Borrower or make distributions to Borrower.

7.8 Transactions with Affiliates. Directly or indirectly enter into or permit to exist any material transaction with any Affiliate of Borrower, except for (a) transactions that are upon fair and reasonable terms that are no less favorable to Borrower than would be obtained in an arm’s length transaction with a non-affiliated Person, (b) sales of equity securities in bona fide venture financing transactions that are not prohibited by Section 7.2, (c) the incurrence of Subordinated Debt, (d) commercially reasonable and customary compensation arrangements with Borrower’s and its Subsidiaries employees, officers, directors and managers approved by Borrower’s or such Subsidiary’s Board of Directors, (e) transactions permitted pursuant to Section 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4 or 7.7, (f) intercompany services arrangements entered into between Borrower and its Subsidiaries and reviewed and approved by Agent in its reasonable discretion, (g) transactions among any of the Borrowers and/or any of the Guarantors, and (h) transfer pricing, cost plus or similar arrangements between Borrower and its Subsidiaries approved in advance, in writing by Agent in its reasonable discretion; provided that Agent shall, as soon as practicable, but no later than ten (10) Business Days after Agent receives from Borrower a substantially final copy of any proposed transfer pricing, intercompany services or similar arrangement, provide any comments, questions or approval of the same (as appropriate) to Borrower; provided, further, that to the extent Agent fails provide any comments, questions or approval within such ten (10) Business Day period, Agent shall be deemed to have approved any such transfer pricing, intercompany services or similar arrangement.

7.9 Subordinated Debt. (a) Make or permit any payment on any Subordinated Debt, except under the terms of the subordination, intercreditor, or other similar agreement to which such Subordinated Debt is subject, or (b) amend any provision in any document relating to the Subordinated Debt which would increase the amount thereof, provide for earlier or greater principal, interest, or other payments thereon, except as expressly permitted under the terms of the applicable subordination, intercreditor or similar agreement to which such Subordinated Debt is subject, or adversely affect the subordination thereof to Obligations owed to Agent.

 

23

7.10 Compliance. Become an “investment company” or a company controlled by an “investment company”, under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or undertake as one of its important activities extending credit to purchase or carry margin stock (as defined in Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), or use the proceeds of any Credit Extension for that purpose; fail to (a) meet the minimum funding requirements of ERISA, (b) prevent a Reportable Event or Prohibited Transaction as defined in ERISA, from occurring or (c) comply with applicable provisions of the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act, the failure of any of the conditions in clauses (a) through (c) which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on Borrower’s business, or violate any other law or regulation, if the violation could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on Borrower’s business or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so; withdraw or permit any Subsidiary to withdraw from participation in, permit partial or complete termination of, or permit the occurrence of any other event with respect to, any present pension, profit sharing and deferred compensation plan which could reasonably be expected to result in any material liability of Borrower, including any liability to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or its successors or any other governmental agency in excess of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000).

7.11 Subsidiary Assets. Permit the aggregate value of cash and Cash Equivalents held by Borrower’s Subsidiaries that are not either co-Borrowers or secured Guarantors hereunder to, collectively, exceed Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) (or equivalent) for more than ten (10) consecutive Business Days each calendar month, provided that at no time shall the cash and Cash Equivalents held by such Subsidiaries exceed Ten Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($10,500,000) in the aggregate.

 
8 	

EVENTS OF DEFAULT

Any one of the following shall constitute an event of default (an “Event of Default”) under this Agreement:

8.1 Payment Default. Borrower fails to (a) make any payment of principal or interest on any Credit Extension when due (provided, however, that an Event of Default shall not occur on account of a failure to pay due solely to an administrative or operational error of Agent or the Lenders (or any failure to auto-debit Borrower’s deposit accounts pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to the extent Agent or the Lenders fail to notify Borrower of the intention not to initiate such auto-debt at least five (5) Business Days prior to the applicable payment date) or Borrower’s bank if Borrower had the funds to make the payment when due and makes the payment within three (3) Business Days following Borrower’s knowledge of such failure to pay), or (b) pay any other Obligations within three (3) Business Days after such Obligations are due and payable (which three (3) Business Day cure period shall not apply to payments due on the Term Loan Maturity Date). During the cure period, the failure to make or pay any payment specified under clause (a) or (b) hereunder is not an Event of Default (but no Credit Extension will be made during the cure period);

 

24

8.2 Covenant Default.

(a) Borrower fails or neglects to perform any obligation in Sections 6.1(c), 6.2, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, 6.8, or 6.14 or violates any covenant in Section 7; or

(b) Borrower or Guarantor fails or neglects to perform, keep, or observe any other term, provision, condition, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement or any Loan Documents, and as to any default (other than those specified in clause (a) above) under such other term, provision, condition, covenant or agreement that can be cured, has failed to cure the default within ten (10) days after the occurrence thereof; provided, however, that if the default cannot by its nature be cured within the ten (10) day period or cannot after diligent attempts by Borrower or Guarantor be cured within such ten (10) day period, and such default is likely to be cured within a reasonable time, then Borrower or Guarantor shall have an additional period (which shall not in any case exceed thirty (30) days) to attempt to cure such default, and within such reasonable time period the failure to cure the default shall not be deemed an Event of Default (but no Credit Extensions shall be made during such cure period). Cure periods provided under this section shall not apply, among other things, to financial covenants or any other covenants set forth in clause (a) above;

8.3 Material Adverse Change. A Material Adverse Change occurs; provided that solely for purposes of this Section 8.3, the occurrence of any of the following, in and of itself, shall not constitute a Material Adverse Change: (a) any single launch failure or (b) the failure to consummate the transactions contemplated by the De-SPAC Agreement on or prior to November 30, 2021. After a Qualified IPO, Agent shall provide two (2) Business Days written notice to Borrower before exercising any right or remedy with respect to this Section 8.3, whereby during such time, Agent shall make itself available to discuss in good faith any proposed solution to such Material Adverse Change.

8.4 Attachment; Levy; Restraint on Business.

(a) (i) The service of process seeking to attach, by trustee or similar process, any funds of Borrower or of any entity under the control of Borrower (including a Subsidiary) in excess of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000), or (ii) a notice of lien or levy is filed against any of Borrower’s assets by any Governmental Authority, and the same under subclauses (i) and (ii) hereof are not, within ten (10) days after the occurrence thereof, discharged or stayed (whether through the posting of a bond or otherwise); provided, however, no Credit Extensions shall be made during any ten (10) day cure period; or

(b) (i) any material portion of Borrower’s assets is attached, seized, levied on, or comes into possession of a trustee or receiver, or (ii) any court order enjoins, restrains, or prevents Borrower from conducting all or any material part of its business;

8.5 Insolvency. (a) Borrower and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole on a consolidated basis) are unable to pay their debts (including trade debts) as they become due or otherwise becomes insolvent; (b) Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries begins an Insolvency Proceeding; or (c) an Insolvency Proceeding is begun against Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and is not dismissed or stayed within forty five (45) days (but no Credit Extensions shall be made while any of the conditions described in clause (a) exist and/or until any Insolvency Proceeding is dismissed);

 

25

8.6 Other Indebtedness. There is, under any agreement to which Borrower or any Guarantor is a party with a third party or parties, any default resulting in a right by such third party or parties, whether or not exercised, to accelerate the maturity of any Indebtedness in an amount individually or in the aggregate in excess of (a) prior to a Qualified IPO, One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) or (b) after a Qualified IPO, Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000); provided, however, that the Event of Default under this Section 8.6 caused by the occurrence of a breach or default under such other agreement shall be cured or waived for purposes of this Agreement upon Agent receiving written notice from the party asserting such breach or default of such cure or waiver of the breach or default under such other agreement, if at the time of such cure or waiver under such other agreement (x) Agent has not declared an Event of Default under this Agreement and/or exercised any rights with respect thereto; (y) any such cure or waiver does not result in an Event of Default under any other provision of this Agreement or any Loan Document; and (z) in connection with any such cure or waiver under such other agreement, the terms of any agreement with such third party are not modified or amended in any manner which could in the good faith business judgment of Agent be materially less advantageous to Borrower;

8.7 Judgments; Penalties. One or more fines, penalties or final judgments, orders or decrees for the payment of money in an amount, individually or in the aggregate, of (a) prior to a Qualified IPO, at least One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) or (b) after a Qualified IPO, at least Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000) (not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which liability has been accepted by such insurance carrier) shall be rendered against Borrower by any Governmental Authority, and the same are not, within ten (10) Business Days after the entry, assessment or issuance thereof, discharged, satisfied, or paid, or after execution thereof, stayed or bonded pending appeal, or such judgments are not discharged prior to the expiration of any such stay (provided that no Credit Extensions will be made prior to the satisfaction, payment, discharge, stay, or bonding of such fine, penalty, judgment, order or decree);

8.8 Misrepresentations. Borrower or Guarantor or any Person acting for Borrower or Guarantor makes any representation, warranty, or other statement now or later in this Agreement, any Loan Document or in any writing delivered to Agent in connection with this Agreement or any Loan Document or to induce Agent to enter this Agreement or any Loan Document, and such representation, warranty, or other statement is incorrect in any material respect when made;

8.9 Subordinated Debt. Any document, instrument, or agreement evidencing the subordination of any Subordinated Debt shall for any reason be revoked or invalidated or otherwise cease to be in full force and effect, any Person shall be in breach thereof or contest in any manner the validity or enforceability thereof or deny that it has any further liability or obligation thereunder, or the Obligations shall for any reason be subordinated or shall not have the priority contemplated by this Agreement or any applicable subordination or intercreditor agreement; or

8.10 Guaranty. (a) Any guaranty of any Obligations terminates or ceases for any reason to be in full force and effect; (b) any Guarantor does not perform any obligation or covenant under any guaranty of the Obligations (subject to any applicable grace or cure periods); (c) any circumstance described in Sections 8.4, 8.5, 8.6, 8.7 or 8.8 of this Agreement occurs with respect to any Guarantor, or (d) the death, liquidation, winding up, or termination of existence of any Guarantor (provided that a Guarantor may liquidate, wind up or terminate so long as its assets are transferred to another Guarantor or to Borrower).

 

26

9 	

RIGHTS AND REMEDIES

9.1 Rights and Remedies. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, Agent may, or solely with respect to clause (b) any Lender may, without notice or demand, do any or all of the following:

(a) declare all Obligations immediately due and payable (but if an Event of Default described in Section 8.5 occurs all Obligations are immediately due and payable without any action by Agent);

(b) stop advancing money or extending credit for Borrower’s benefit under this Agreement or under any other agreement between Borrower and Agent or such Lender;

(c) verify the amount of, demand payment of and performance under, and collect any Accounts and General Intangibles, settle or adjust disputes and claims directly with Account Debtors for amounts on terms and in any order that Agent considers advisable, and notify any Person owing Borrower money of Agent’s security interest in such funds. Borrower shall collect all payments in trust for Agent and, if requested by Agent, immediately deliver the payments to Agent in the form received from the Account Debtor, with proper endorsements for deposit;

(d) make any payments and do any acts it considers necessary or reasonable to protect the Collateral and/or its security interest in the Collateral. Borrower shall assemble the Collateral if Agent requests and make it available as Agent designates. Agent may enter premises where the Collateral is located, take and maintain possession of any part of the Collateral, and pay, purchase, contest, or compromise any Lien which appears to be prior or superior to its security interest and pay all expenses incurred. Borrower grants Agent a license to enter and occupy any of its premises, without charge by Borrower, to exercise any of Agent’s rights or remedies;

(e) apply to the outstanding Obligations (including any Obligations accelerated in accordance with this Section 9.1 and pursuant to the Code) any (i) balances and deposits of Borrower it holds (other than the Excluded Accounts, which, for the avoidance of doubt shall not contain (in the aggregate) more than two pay periods’ worth of Borrower’s payroll obligations), or (ii) amount held by Agent owing to or for the credit or the account of Borrower;

(f) ship, reclaim, recover, store, finish, maintain, repair, prepare for sale, advertise for sale, and sell the Collateral. Agent is hereby granted a non-exclusive, royalty-free license or other right to use, without charge, Borrower’s labels, Patents, Copyrights, mask works, rights of use of any name, trade secrets, trade names, Trademarks, and advertising matter, or any similar property as it pertains to the Collateral, in completing production of, advertising for sale, and selling any Collateral and, in connection with Agent’s exercise of its rights under this Section 9.1, Borrower’s rights under all licenses and all franchise agreements inure to Agent’s benefit;

(g) deliver a notice of exclusive control, any entitlement order, or other directions or instructions pursuant to any Control Agreement or similar agreements providing control of any Collateral;

(h) demand and receive possession of Borrower’s Books; and

 

27

(i) exercise all rights and remedies available to Agent under the Loan Documents or at law or equity, including all remedies provided under the Code (including disposal of the Collateral pursuant to the terms thereof).

9.2 Power of Attorney. Borrower hereby irrevocably appoints Agent as its lawful attorney-in-fact, exercisable solely following the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, to (i) sign Borrower’s name on any invoice or bill of lading for any Account or drafts against Account Debtors; (ii) demand, collect, sue, and give releases to any Account Debtor for monies due, settle and adjust disputes and claims about the Accounts directly with Account Debtors, and compromise, prosecute, or defend any action, claim, case, or proceeding about any Collateral (including filing a claim or voting a claim in any bankruptcy case in Agent’s or Borrower’s name, as Agent chooses); (iii) make, settle, and adjust all claims under Borrower’s insurance policies; (iv) pay, contest or settle any Lien, charge, encumbrance, security interest, or other claim in or to the Collateral, or any judgment based thereon, or otherwise take any action to terminate or discharge the same; (v) transfer the Collateral into the name of Agent or a third party as the Code permits; (vi) receive, open and dispose of mail addressed to Borrower; (vii) endorse Borrower’s name on any checks, payment instruments, or other forms of payment or security; and (viii) notify all Account Debtors to pay Agent directly. Borrower hereby appoints Agent as its lawful attorney-in-fact to sign Borrower’s name on any documents necessary to perfect or continue the perfection of Agent’s security interest in the Collateral, solely following the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, until all Obligations (other than inchoate indemnification or reimbursement obligations and other obligations which, by their terms, survive termination of this Agreement) have been satisfied in full and the Loan Documents have been terminated. Agent’s foregoing appointment as Borrower’s attorney in fact, and all of Agent’s rights and powers, coupled with an interest, are irrevocable until all Obligations (other than inchoate indemnification or reimbursement obligations and other obligations which, by their terms, survive termination of this Agreement) have been fully repaid and performed and the Loan Documents have been terminated.

9.3 Protective Payments. If Borrower fails to timely obtain the insurance called for by Section 6.7 or fails to timely pay any premium thereon or fails to pay any other amount which Borrower is obligated to pay under this Agreement or any other Loan Document or which may be required to preserve the Collateral, Agent may obtain such insurance or make such payment, and all amounts so paid by Agent are Expenses and immediately due and payable, bearing interest at the then highest rate applicable to the Obligations, and secured by the Collateral. Agent will make reasonable efforts to provide Borrower with notice of Agent obtaining such insurance at the time it is obtained or within a reasonable time thereafter. No payments by Agent are deemed an agreement to make similar payments in the future or Agent’s waiver of any Event of Default.

9.4 Application of Payments and Proceeds Upon Default. If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) shall have the right to apply in any order any funds in its possession, whether from Borrower account balances, payments, proceeds realized as the result of any collection of Accounts or other disposition of the Collateral, or otherwise, to the Obligations. Agent shall pay any surplus to Borrower or to other Persons legally entitled thereto; Borrower shall remain liable to the Lenders for any deficiency. If Agent, directly or indirectly, enters into a deferred payment or other credit transaction with any purchaser at any sale of Collateral, Agent shall have the option, exercisable at any time, of either reducing the Obligations by the principal amount of the purchase price or deferring the reduction of the Obligations until the actual receipt by Agent of cash therefor.

 

28

9.5 Agent’s Liability for Collateral. So long as Agent complies with reasonable banking practices regarding the safekeeping of the Collateral in the possession or under the control of Agent, Agent shall not be liable or responsible for: (a) the safekeeping of the Collateral; (b) any loss or damage to the Collateral; (c) any diminution in the value of the Collateral; or (d) any act or default of any carrier, warehouseman, bailee, or other Person. So long as Agent complies with reasonable banking practices, Borrower bears all risk of loss, damage or destruction of the Collateral.

9.6 No Waiver; Remedies Cumulative. Agent’s failure, at any time or times, to require strict performance by Borrower of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall not waive, affect, or diminish any right of Agent thereafter to demand strict performance and compliance herewith or therewith. No waiver hereunder shall be effective unless signed by the party granting the waiver and then is only effective for the specific instance and purpose for which it is given. Agent’s rights and remedies under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents are cumulative. Agent has all rights and remedies provided under the Code, by law, or in equity. Agent’s exercise of one right or remedy is not an election and shall not preclude Agent from exercising any other remedy under this Agreement or any other Loan Document or other remedy available at law or in equity, and Agent’s waiver of any Event of Default is not a continuing waiver. Agent’s delay in exercising any remedy is not a waiver, election, or acquiescence.

9.7 Demand Waiver. Borrower waives demand, notice of default or dishonor, notice of payment and nonpayment, notice of any default, nonpayment at maturity, release, compromise, settlement, extension, or renewal of accounts, documents, instruments, chattel paper, and guarantees held by Agent on which Borrower is liable.

9.8 Borrower Liability. Any Borrower may, acting singly, request Credit Extensions hereunder. Each Borrower hereby appoints each other as agent for the other for all purposes hereunder, including with respect to requesting Credit Extensions hereunder. Each Borrower hereunder shall be jointly and severally obligated to repay all Credit Extensions made hereunder, regardless of which Borrower actually receives said Credit Extension, as if each Borrower hereunder directly received all Credit Extensions. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower waives (a) any suretyship defenses available to it under the Code or any other applicable law, including, without limitation, the benefit of California Civil Code Section 2815 permitting revocation as to future transactions and the benefit of California Civil Code Sections 1432, 2809, 2810, 2819, 2839, 2845, 2847, 2848, 2849, 2850, and 2899 and 3433, and (b) any right to require Agent to: (i) proceed against any Borrower or any other person; (ii) proceed against or exhaust any security; or (iii) pursue any other remedy. Agent may exercise or not exercise any right or remedy it has against any Borrower or any security it holds (including the right to foreclose by judicial or non-judicial sale) without affecting any Borrower’s liability. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or other related document, each Borrower irrevocably waives all rights that it may have at law or in equity (including, without limitation, any law subrogating a Borrower to the rights of Agent under this Agreement) to seek contribution, indemnification or any other form of reimbursement from any other Borrower, or any other Person now or hereafter

 

29

primarily or secondarily liable for any of the Obligations, for any payment made by a Borrower with respect to the Obligations in connection with this Agreement or otherwise and all rights that it might have to benefit from, or to participate in, any security for the Obligations as a result of any payment made by a Borrower with respect to the Obligations in connection with this Agreement or otherwise. Any agreement providing for indemnification, reimbursement or any other arrangement prohibited under this Section 9.8 shall be null and void. If any payment is made to a Borrower in contravention of this Section 9.8, such Borrower shall hold such payment in trust for Agent and such payment shall be promptly delivered to Agent for application to the Obligations, whether matured or unmatured.

 
10 	

NOTICES

All notices, consents, requests, approvals, demands, or other communication by any party to this Agreement or any other Loan Document must be in writing and shall be deemed to have been validly served, given, or delivered: (a) upon the earlier of actual receipt and three (3) Business Days after deposit in the U.S. mail, first class, registered or certified mail return receipt requested, with proper postage prepaid; (b) upon transmission, when sent by electronic mail or facsimile transmission; (c) one (1) Business Day after deposit with a reputable overnight courier with all charges prepaid; or (d) when delivered, if hand-delivered by messenger, all of which shall be addressed to the party to be notified and sent to the address, facsimile number, or email address indicated below. Agent or Borrower may change its mailing or electronic mail address or facsimile number by giving the other party written notice thereof in accordance with the terms of this Section 10.

 
		
If to Borrower: 	   	ROCKET LAB USA, INC., on behalf of Borrower
	   	3881 McGowen Street
	   	Long Beach, CA 90808
	   	Attn: Peter Beck, Chief Executive Officer
	
With a copy to (which shall not be deemed to constitute notice): 	   	Goodwin Procter LLP
	   	520 Broadway, Suite 500
	   	Santa Monica, CA 90401
	   	Attn: Kristopher Ring
	
If to Agent: 	   	HERCULES CAPITAL, INC.
	   	400 Hamilton Avenue, Suite 310
	   	Palo Alto, CA 94301
	   	Attn: Legal Department

 

30

11 	

CHOICE OF LAW, VENUE, JURY TRIAL WAIVER AND JUDICIAL REFERENCE

Except as otherwise expressly provided in any of the Loan Documents, California law governs the Loan Documents without regard to principles of conflicts of law. Except to the extent otherwise set forth in the Loan Documents, each party hereto submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of the State and Federal courts in Santa Clara County, California; provided, however, that nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to operate to preclude Agent from bringing suit or taking other legal action in any other jurisdiction to realize on the Collateral or any other security for the Obligations, or to enforce a judgment or other court order in favor of Agent. Borrower expressly submits and consents in advance to such jurisdiction in any action or suit commenced in any such court, and Borrower hereby waives any objection that it may have based upon lack of personal jurisdiction, improper venue, or forum non conveniens and hereby consents to the granting of such legal or equitable relief as is deemed appropriate by such court. Borrower hereby waives personal service of the summons, complaints, and other process issued in such action or suit and agrees that service of such summons, complaints, and other process may be made by registered or certified mail addressed to Borrower at the address set forth in, or subsequently provided by Borrower in accordance with, Section 10 of this Agreement and that service so made shall be deemed completed upon the earlier to occur of Borrower’s actual receipt thereof or three (3) days after deposit in the U.S. mails, proper postage prepaid.

TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EACH PARTY HERETO WAIVES THEIR RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION ARISING OUT OF OR BASED UPON THIS AGREEMENT, THE LOAN DOCUMENTS OR ANY CONTEMPLATED TRANSACTION, INCLUDING CONTRACT, TORT, BREACH OF DUTY AND ALL OTHER CLAIMS. THIS WAIVER IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR BOTH PARTIES TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT. EACH PARTY HAS REVIEWED THIS WAIVER WITH ITS COUNSEL.

WITHOUT INTENDING IN ANY WAY TO LIMIT THE PARTIES’ AGREEMENT TO WAIVE THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY, if the above waiver of the right to a trial by jury is not enforceable, the parties hereto agree that any and all disputes or controversies of any nature between them arising at any time shall be decided by a reference to a private judge, mutually selected by the parties (or, if they cannot agree, by the Presiding Judge of the Santa Clara County, California Superior Court) appointed in accordance with California Code of Civil Procedure Section 638 (or pursuant to comparable provisions of federal law if the dispute falls within the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal courts), sitting without a jury, in Santa Clara County, California; and the parties hereby submit to the jurisdiction of such court. The reference proceedings shall be conducted pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of California Code of Civil Procedure Sections 638 through 645.1, inclusive. The private judge shall have the power, among others, to grant provisional relief, including without limitation, entering temporary restraining orders, issuing preliminary and permanent injunctions and appointing receivers. All such proceedings shall be closed to the public and confidential and all records relating thereto shall be permanently sealed. If during the course of any dispute, a party desires to seek provisional relief, but a judge has not been appointed at that point pursuant to the judicial reference procedures, then such party may apply to the Santa Clara County, California Superior Court for such relief. The proceeding before the private judge shall be conducted in the same manner as it would be before

 

31

a court under the rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings. The parties shall be entitled to discovery which shall be conducted in the same manner as it would be before a court under the rules of discovery applicable to judicial proceedings. The private judge shall oversee discovery and may enforce all discovery rules and orders applicable to judicial proceedings in the same manner as a trial court judge. The parties agree that the selected or appointed private judge shall have the power to decide all issues in the action or proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and shall report a statement of decision thereon pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 644(a). Nothing in this paragraph shall limit the right of any party at any time to exercise self-help remedies, foreclose against collateral, or obtain provisional remedies. The private judge shall also determine all issues relating to the applicability, interpretation, and enforceability of this paragraph.

This Section 11 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

 
12 	

GENERAL PROVISIONS

12.1 Termination Prior to Maturity Date; Survival. All covenants, representations and warranties made in this Agreement shall continue in full force until this Agreement has terminated pursuant to its terms and all Obligations (other than inchoate indemnity obligations, and any other obligations which, by their terms, are to survive the termination of this Agreement) have been satisfied. So long as Borrower has satisfied the Obligations (other than inchoate indemnity obligations, and any other obligations which, by their terms, are to survive the termination of this Agreement), this Agreement may be terminated prior to the Term Loan Maturity Date by Borrower, effective three (3) Business Days after written notice of termination is given to Agent. Those obligations that are expressly specified in this Agreement as surviving this Agreement’s termination shall continue to survive notwithstanding this Agreement’s termination. No termination of this Agreement shall in any way affect or impair any right or remedy of Agent, nor shall any such termination relieve Borrower of any Obligation to Agent, until all of the Obligations (other than inchoate indemnity obligations, and any other obligations which, by their terms, are to survive the termination of this Agreement) have been paid and performed in full. Those Obligations that are expressly specified in this Agreement as surviving this Agreement’s termination shall continue to survive notwithstanding this Agreement’s termination and payment in full of the Obligations then outstanding.

12.2 Successors and Assigns. The provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall inure to the benefit of and be binding on Borrower and its permitted assigns (if any). Borrower shall not assign its obligations under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents without Agent’s express prior written consent, and any such attempted assignment shall be void and of no effect. As long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Agent and the Lenders shall not assign, transfer, or endorse its rights hereunder and under the other Loan Documents to a Direct Competitor or otherwise without the Borrower’s prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), and all of such rights shall inure to the benefit of Agent’s and the Lenders’ successors and permitted assigns; it being acknowledged that in all cases, any transfer to an Affiliate of any Lender or Agent shall be allowed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) in connection with any assignment by a Lender as a result of a forced divestiture at the request of any regulatory agency, the restrictions set forth herein shall not apply and Agent and the Lenders may assign, transfer or indorse its rights hereunder and under the

 

32

other Loan Documents to any Person or party and (y) in connection with a Lender’s own financing or securitization transactions, the restrictions set forth herein shall not apply and Agent and the Lenders may assign, transfer or indorse its rights hereunder and under the other Loan Documents to any Person or party providing such financing or formed to undertake such securitization transaction and any transferee of such Person or party upon the occurrence of a default, event of default or similar occurrence with respect to such financing or securitization transaction; provided that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (i) no such sale, transfer, pledge or assignment under this clause (y) shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such Person or party for such Lender as a party hereto until Agent shall have received and accepted an effective assignment agreement from such Person or party in form satisfactory to Agent executed, delivered and fully completed by the applicable parties thereto, and shall have received such other information regarding such assignee as Agent reasonably shall require, and (ii) in connection with any sale, transfer, pledge or assignment permitted under this Section 12.2 by Agent or any Lender, Agent or such Lender (as applicable) agrees to provide prior written notice thereof to Borrower. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any such assignment by Agent or any Lender, Agent or such Lender, as applicable, agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to avoid any material impact with respect to CFIUS or any other applicable United States federal law or regulation materially applicable to the Borrower’s business. Any prohibited assignment or transfer by any Person of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be absolutely null and void ab initio. The Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in the United States a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lender(s), and the Term Loan Commitments of, and principal amounts (and stated interest) of the Term Loan Advances owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the “Register”). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Lender(s) shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.

12.3 Indemnification. Borrower agrees to indemnify, defend and hold Agent and each Lender and each of their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, or any other Person affiliated with or representing Agent or any Lender (each, an “Indemnified Person”) harmless against: (i) all obligations, demands, claims, and liabilities (collectively, “Claims”) claimed or asserted by any other party in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents; and (ii) all losses or reasonable documented out-of-pocket expenses (including the Expenses) in any way suffered, incurred, or paid by such Indemnified Person as a result of, following from, consequential to, or arising from transactions between Agent, the Lenders and Borrower contemplated by the Loan Documents (including reasonable documented out-of-pocket attorneys’ fees and expenses), except for Claims and/or losses directly caused by any Indemnified Person’s gross negligence or willful misconduct.

This Section 12.3 shall survive until all statutes of limitation with respect to the Claims, losses, and expenses for which indemnity is given shall have run.

12.4 Time of Essence. Time is of the essence for the performance of all Obligations in this Agreement.

 

33

12.5 Severability of Provisions. Each provision of this Agreement is severable from every other provision in determining the enforceability of any provision.

12.6 Correction of Loan Documents. Agent may correct patent errors and fill in any blanks in the Loan Documents consistent with the agreement of the parties so long as Agent provides Borrower with written notice of such correction and allows Borrower at least ten (10) days to object to such correction. In the event of such objection, such correction shall not be made except by an amendment signed by both Agent and Borrower.

12.7 Amendments in Writing; Waiver; Integration. No purported amendment or modification of any Loan Document, or waiver, discharge or termination of any obligation under any Loan Document, or release, or consent to the transfer of, any Collateral shall be enforceable or admissible unless, and only to the extent, expressly set forth in a writing signed by the party against which enforcement or admission is sought. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no oral promise or statement, nor any action, inaction, delay, failure to require performance or course of conduct shall operate as, or evidence, an amendment, supplement or waiver or have any other effect on any Loan Document. Any waiver granted shall be limited to the specific circumstance expressly described in it, and shall not apply to any subsequent or other circumstance, whether similar or dissimilar, or give rise to, or evidence, any obligation or commitment to grant any further waiver. The Loan Documents represent the entire agreement about this subject matter and supersede prior negotiations or agreements. All prior agreements, understandings, representations, warranties, and negotiations between the parties about the subject matter of the Loan Documents merge into the Loan Documents. In the event any provision of any other Loan Document is inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall exclusively control.

12.8 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties on separate counterparts, each of which, when executed and delivered, is an original, and all taken together, constitute one Agreement.

12.9 Confidentiality. In handling any confidential information, Agent and each Lender shall exercise the same degree of care that it exercises for its own proprietary information, but disclosure of information may be made: (a) to Agent’s Subsidiaries or Affiliates (such Subsidiaries and Affiliates, together with Agent, collectively, “Agent Entities”) provided that Agent insures that such Agent Entities are informed of the confidential nature of such information and instructed to maintain the confidentiality of such information; (b) to prospective transferees or purchasers of any interest in the Credit Extensions that are permitted by Section 12.2 (provided, that any prospective transferee or purchaser shall have entered into an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those in this Section); (c) as required by law, regulation, subpoena, or other order; (d) to Agent’s or such Lender’s regulators or as otherwise required in connection with Agent’s or such Lender’s examination or audit; (e) as Agent or such Lender considers appropriate in exercising remedies under the Loan Documents; (f) to third-party service providers of Agent or such Lender so long as such service providers have executed a confidentiality agreement with Agent or such Lender with terms no less restrictive than those contained herein; and (g) to any investor or potential investor (and each of their respective Affiliates or clients) in Agent or the Lenders (or each of their respective Affiliates) to the extent such investor or potential investor has executed a confidentiality agreement with Agent or such Lender with terms no less restrictive than

 

34

those contained herein. Confidential information does not include information that is either: (i) in the public domain or in Agent’s or such Lender’s possession when disclosed to Agent or such Lender, or becomes part of the public domain (other than as a result of its disclosure by Agent or such Lender in violation of this Agreement) after disclosure to Agent or such Lender; or (ii) disclosed to Agent or such Lender by a third party, if Agent or such Lender does not know that the third party is prohibited from disclosing the information.

Agent Entities may use anonymous forms of confidential information for aggregate datasets, for analyses or reporting, and for any other uses not expressly prohibited in writing by Borrower. The provisions of the immediately preceding sentence shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

12.10 Attorneys’ Fees, Costs and Expenses. In any action or proceeding between Borrower and Agent arising out of or relating to the Loan Documents, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys’ fees and other costs and expenses incurred, in addition to any other relief to which it may be entitled.

12.11 Electronic Execution of Documents. The words “execution,” “signed,” “signature” and words of like import in any Loan Document shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity and enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping systems, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including, without limitation, any state law based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.

12.12 Right of Setoff. Borrower hereby grants to Agent a Lien and a right of setoff as security for all Obligations to the Lenders, whether now existing or hereafter arising upon and against all deposits, credits, collateral and property, now or hereafter in the possession, custody, safekeeping or control of Agent or any entity under the control of Agent (including a subsidiary of Agent) or in transit to any of them. At any time after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, without demand or notice, Agent may setoff the same or any part thereof and apply the same to any Obligation of Borrower then due (including any Obligations accelerated by Agent in accordance with Agent’s rights hereunder) and regardless of the adequacy of any other collateral securing the Obligations. ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO REQUIRE AGENT TO EXERCISE ITS RIGHTS OR REMEDIES WITH RESPECT TO ANY OTHER COLLATERAL WHICH SECURES THE OBLIGATIONS, PRIOR TO EXERCISING ITS RIGHT OF SETOFF WITH RESPECT TO SUCH DEPOSITS, CREDITS OR OTHER PROPERTY OF BORROWER, ARE HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVED.

12.13 Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.

12.14 Construction of Agreement. The parties mutually acknowledge that they and their attorneys have participated in the preparation and negotiation of this Agreement. In cases of uncertainty this Agreement shall be construed without regard to which of the parties caused the uncertainty to exist.

 

35

12.15 Relationship. The relationship of the parties to this Agreement is determined solely by the provisions of this Agreement. The parties do not intend to create any agency, partnership, joint venture, trust, fiduciary or other relationship with duties or incidents different from those of parties to an arm’s-length contract.

12.16 Third Parties. Nothing in this Agreement, whether express or implied, is intended to: (a) confer any benefits, rights or remedies under or by reason of this Agreement on any persons other than the express parties to it and their respective permitted successors and assigns; (b) relieve or discharge the obligation or liability of any person not an express party to this Agreement; or (c) give any person not an express party to this Agreement any right of subrogation or action against any party to this Agreement.

12.17 Patriot Act. Agent hereby notifies Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries, which information includes the names and addresses of Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries and other information that will allow Agent and the Lenders, as applicable, to identify Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries in accordance with the USA PATRIOT Act.

12.18 Right to Invest. Hercules Capital, Inc. or, to the extent permitted in accordance with this Section 12.18, its assignee or nominee shall have the right, in its discretion, to participate in the Subsequent Financing in an amount of up to $5,000,000 on the same terms, conditions and pricing afforded to others participating in the Subsequent Financing. This Section 12.18, and all rights and obligations hereunder, shall survive the repayment of indebtedness under, and otherwise shall survive the expiration or other termination of, this Agreement; provided that this Section 12.18, and all rights and obligations hereunder, shall terminate and be of no further force and effect after the closing of a Qualified IPO. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Agreement (including, without limitation, Section 12.2) or any other Loan Document, the right set forth under this Section 12.18 may not be assigned or otherwise transferred to any other Person other than any Affiliate of Hercules Capital, Inc. without the prior written consent of Borrower (which shall not be unreasonably withheld), and any prohibited assignment or transfer shall be absolutely null and void ab initio.

12.19 De-SPAC Transactions. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement or any other Loan Documents to the contrary, it is understood and agreed that (i) the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the De-SPAC Agreement shall be permitted and (ii) the completion of such transactions shall not result in a default or an Event of Default hereunder or under any other Loan Document.

12.21 Agency. Agent and each Lender hereby agree to the terms and conditions set forth on Addendum 2 attached hereto. Borrower acknowledges and agrees to the terms and conditions set forth on Addendum 2 attached hereto.

 

36

13 	

DEFINITIONS

13.1 Definitions. As used in the Loan Documents, the word “shall” is mandatory, the word “may” is permissive, the word “or” is not exclusive, the words “includes” and “including” are not limiting, the singular includes the plural, and numbers denoting amounts that are set off in brackets are negative. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms have the following meanings:

“Account” is, as to any Person, any “account” of such Person as “account” is defined in the Code with such additions to such term as may hereafter be made, and includes, without limitation, all accounts receivable and other sums owing to such Person.

“Account Debtor” is any “account debtor” as defined in the Code with such additions to such term as may hereafter be made.

“ACH Authorization” means the ACH Debit Authorization Agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit D, which account numbers shall be redacted for security purposes if and when filed publicly by the Borrower.

“Acquisition” means any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of a Person, or of any business, line of business or division or other unit of operation of a Person, (b) the acquisition of fifty percent (50%) or more of the equity interests of any Person, whether or not involving a merger, consolidation or similar transaction with such other Person, or otherwise causing any Person to become a Subsidiary of Borrower, or (c) the acquisition of, or the right to use, develop or sell (in each case, including through licensing), any product, product line or Intellectual Property of or from any other Person.

“Affiliate” is, with respect to any Person, each other Person that owns or controls directly or indirectly the Person, any Person that controls or is controlled by or is under common control with the Person, and each of that Person’s senior executive officers, directors, partners and, for any Person that is a limited liability company, that Person’s managers and members.

“Agent” is defined in the preamble hereof.

“Agent Entities” is defined in Section 12.9.

“Agreement” is defined in the preamble hereof.

“Annual Financial Statements” is defined in Section 6.2(f).

“Authorized Signer” is any individual listed in Borrower’s Borrowing Resolution who is authorized to execute the Loan Documents, including any Credit Extension request, on behalf of Borrower.

“Board” is Borrower’s board of directors.

“Borrower” is defined in the preamble hereof, but in no event shall it include an Immaterial Subsidiary.

“Borrower’s Books” are all Borrower’s books and records including ledgers, federal and state tax returns, records regarding Borrower’s assets or liabilities, the Collateral, business operations or financial condition, and all computer programs or storage or any equipment containing such information.

 

37

“Borrowing Resolutions” are, with respect to any Person, those resolutions adopted by such Person’s board of directors (and, if required under the terms of such Person’s Operating Documents, stockholders) and delivered by such Person to Agent approving the Loan Documents to which such Person is a party and the transactions contemplated thereby, together with a certificate executed by its secretary on behalf of such Person certifying (a) such Person has the authority to execute, deliver, and perform its obligations under each of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, (b) that set forth as a part of or attached as an exhibit to such certificate is a true, correct, and complete copy of the resolutions then in full force and effect authorizing and ratifying the execution, delivery, and performance by such Person of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, (c) the name(s) of the Person(s) authorized to execute the Loan Documents, including any Credit Extension request, on behalf of such Person, together with a sample of the true signature(s) of such Person(s), and (d) that Agent may conclusively rely on such certificate unless and until such Person shall have delivered to Agent a further certificate cancelling or amending such prior certificate.

“Business Day” is any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the State of California are closed for business.

“Cash Equivalents” means (a) marketable direct obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by the United States or any agency or any State thereof having maturities of not more than one (1) year from the date of acquisition; (b) commercial paper maturing no more than one (1) year after its creation and having the highest rating from either Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group or Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.; (c) certificates of deposit issued maturing no more than one (1) year after issue; and (d) money market funds at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the assets of which constitute Cash Equivalents of the kinds described in clauses (a) through (c) of this definition.

“Change in Control” means (a) at any time, any “person” or “group” (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), shall become, or obtain rights (whether by means of warrants, options or otherwise) to become, the “beneficial owner” (as defined in Rules 13(d)-3 and 13(d)-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of forty-nine percent (49%) or more of the ordinary voting power for the election of directors of Borrower (determined on a fully diluted basis) other than by the sale of Borrower’s equity securities in a public offering or to venture capital or private equity investors so long as Borrower identifies to Agent the venture capital or private equity investors at least seven (7) Business Days prior to the closing of the transaction and provides to Agent a description of the material terms of the transaction; (b) during any period of twelve (12) consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of Borrower cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first (1st) day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that

 

38

board or equivalent governing body; or (c) at any time, Borrower shall cease to own and control, of record and beneficially, directly or indirectly, one hundred percent (100.0%) of each class of outstanding capital stock of each Subsidiary of Borrower free and clear of all Liens (except Liens created by this Agreement and Liens incurred in connection with Subordinated Debt). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the consummation of the transactions pursuant to the De-SPAC Agreement shall not constitute a “Change in Control” hereunder.

“Claims” is defined in Section 12.3.

“Code” is the Uniform Commercial Code, as the same may, from time to time, be enacted and in effect in the State of California; provided, that, to the extent that the Code is used to define any term herein or in any Loan Document and such term is defined differently in different Articles or Divisions of the Code, the definition of such term contained in Article or Division 9 shall govern; provided further, that in the event that, by reason of mandatory provisions of law, any or all of the attachment, perfection, or priority of, or remedies with respect to, Agent’s Lien on any Collateral is governed by the Uniform Commercial Code in effect in a jurisdiction other than the State of California, the term “Code” shall mean the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted and in effect in such other jurisdiction solely for purposes of the provisions thereof relating to such attachment, perfection, priority, or remedies and for purposes of definitions relating to such provisions.

“Collateral” is any and all properties, rights and assets of Borrower described on Exhibit A.

“Collateral Account” is any Deposit Account, Securities Account, or Commodity Account.

“Commodity Account” is any “commodity account” as defined in the Code with such additions to such term as may hereafter be made.

“Compliance Statement” is that certain statement in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.

“Contingent Obligation” is, for any Person, any direct or indirect liability, contingent or not, of that Person for (a) any indebtedness, lease, dividend, letter of credit or other obligation of another such as an obligation, in each case, directly or indirectly guaranteed, endorsed, co made, discounted or sold with recourse by that Person, or for which that Person is directly or indirectly liable; (b) any obligations for undrawn letters of credit for the account of that Person; and (c) all obligations from any interest rate, currency or commodity swap agreement, interest rate cap or collar agreement, or other agreement or arrangement designated to protect a Person against fluctuation in interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity prices; but “Contingent Obligation” does not include endorsements in the ordinary course of business. The amount of a Contingent Obligation is the stated or determined amount of the primary obligation for which the Contingent Obligation is made or, if not determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability for it determined by the Person in good faith; but the amount may not exceed the maximum of the obligations under any guarantee or other support arrangement.

 

39

“Control Agreement” is any control agreement entered into among the depository institution at which Borrower maintains a Deposit Account or the securities intermediary or commodity intermediary at which Borrower maintains a Securities Account or a Commodity Account, Borrower, and Agent pursuant to which Agent obtains control (within the meaning of the Code) over such Deposit Account, Securities Account, or Commodity Account.

“Copyrights” are any and all copyright rights, copyright applications, copyright registrations and like protections in each work of authorship and derivative work thereof, whether published or unpublished and whether or not the same also constitutes a trade secret.

“Credit Extension” is any Term Loan Advance, amount utilized for cash management services, or any other extension of credit by the Lenders for Borrower’s benefit.

“De-SPAC Agreement” is that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 1, 2021, by and among Vector Acquisition Corporation, a Cayman Islands exempted company, Parent and Prestige USA Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent, as amended by that certain Amendment No. 1, dated as of May 7, 2021.

“Default Rate” is defined in Section 2.5(b).

“Deferred Revenue” is all amounts received or invoiced in advance of performance under contracts and not yet recognized as revenue.

“Deposit Account” is any “deposit account” as defined in the Code with such additions to such term as may hereafter be made.

“Direct Competitor” means any Person (whether as an operating company or direct or indirect parent with voting control over such operating company) that is a direct competitor of the Borrower (or a vulture fund or distressed debt fund) that is identified in writing to the Agent by the Borrower; provided that (A) any written notice delivered hereunder shall not have retroactive effect to disqualify an entity in respect of any prior allocation, assignment or participation and (B) the effect of any written notice of designation hereunder shall not take effect until three (3) full Business Days after receipt of such written notice by the Agent.

“Division” means, in reference to any Person which is an entity, the division of such Person into two (2) or more separate Persons, with the dividing Person either continuing or terminating its existence as part of such division, including, without limitation, as contemplated under Section 18-217 of the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act for limited liability companies formed under Delaware law, or any analogous action taken pursuant to any other applicable law with respect to any corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity.

“Dollars,” “dollars” or use of the sign “$” means only lawful money of the United States and not any other currency, regardless of whether that currency uses the “$” sign to denote its currency or may be readily converted into lawful money of the United States.

“Due Diligence Fee” is defined in Section 2.6(d).

“Effective Date” is defined in the preamble hereof.

 

40

“End of Term Charge” is $3,250,000.

“Equipment” is all “equipment” as defined in the Code with such additions to such term as may hereafter be made, and includes without limitation all machinery, fixtures, goods, vehicles (including motor vehicles and trailers), and any interest in any of the foregoing.

“ERISA” is the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and its regulations.

“Event of Default” is defined in Section 8.

“Exchange Act” is the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

“Excluded Accounts” is defined in Section 6.8(c).

“Expenses” are all reasonable documented out-of-pocket audit fees and expenses, costs, and expenses (including reasonable documented out-of-pocket attorneys’ fees and expenses of one outside counsel of Agent and the Lenders (which shall be Latham & Watkins LLP) and one local counsel in each relevant material jurisdiction (which may include a single local counsel acting in multiple jurisdictions) and, in the case of an actual conflict of interest where Agent or any Lender affected by such conflict notifies Borrower of the existence of such conflict and thereafter retains its own counsel, one additional conflicts counsel for the affected Lenders similarly situated) for preparing, amending, negotiating, administering, defending and enforcing the Loan Documents (including, without limitation, those incurred in connection with appeals or Insolvency Proceedings) incurred with respect to Borrower or any Guarantor by Agent and the Lenders.

“Facility Charge” means One Million Dollars ($1,000,000).

“Financial Statement Repository” is each of Agent’s email addresses listed in Section 10 or such other means of collecting information approved and designated by Agent after providing notice thereof to Borrower from time to time.

“Foreign Accounts” means (i) Rocket NZ may maintain up to Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000) in its account at ASB Bank Limited listed on the Perfection Certificate delivered to Agent on or prior to the Effective Date (the “ASB Account”), provided that at no time shall the amount of cash in the ASB Account exceed Four Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($4,500,000) for more than ten (10) consecutive Business Days in any calendar month, and (ii) Rocket Canada may maintain its account at Scotia Bank listed on the Perfection Certificate delivered to Agent on or prior to the Effective Date (the “Scotia Bank Account”), provided that at no time shall the amount of cash in the Scotia Bank Account exceed Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) for more than ten (10) consecutive Business Days in any calendar month.

“Funding Date” is any date on which a Credit Extension is made to or for the account of Borrower which shall be a Business Day.

“GAAP” is generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other Person as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination.

 

41

“General Intangibles” is all “general intangibles” as defined in the Code in effect on the date hereof with such additions to such term as may hereafter be made, and includes without limitation, all Intellectual Property, claims, income and other tax refunds, security and other deposits, payment intangibles, contract rights, options to purchase or sell real or personal property, rights in all litigation presently or hereafter pending (whether in contract, tort or otherwise), insurance policies (including without limitation key man, property damage, and business interruption insurance), payments of insurance and rights to payment of any kind.

“Governmental Approval” is any consent, authorization, approval, order, license, franchise, permit, certificate, accreditation, registration, filing or notice, of, issued by, from or to, or other act by or in respect of, any Governmental Authority.

“Governmental Authority” is any nation or government, any state or other political subdivision thereof, any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to government, any securities exchange and any self-regulatory organization.

“Guarantor” is any Person providing a Guaranty in favor of Agent, but in no event shall it include an Immaterial Subsidiary.

“Guaranty” is any guarantee of all or any part of the Obligations, as the same may from time to time be amended, restated, modified or otherwise supplemented.

“Immaterial Subsidiary” means, at any time, any Subsidiary of the Borrower having (i) total assets (as determined in accordance with GAAP) with a book value of no more than 2.5% of the consolidated total assets of the Borrower and Subsidiaries, and (ii) total revenue (as determined in accordance with GAAP) of no more than 2.5% of the consolidated total revenues of the Borrower and Subsidiaries; provided, however, that (a) the total assets (as determined in accordance with GAAP) of all Immaterial Subsidiaries shall not have a book value in excess of 5% of the consolidated total revenues of the Borrower and Subsidiaries, and (b) the total revenues (as so determined) of all Immaterial Subsidiaries shall not be in excess of 5% of the consolidated total revenues of the Borrower and Subsidiaries.

“Indebtedness” is (a) indebtedness for borrowed money or the deferred price of property or services, such as reimbursement and other obligations for surety bonds and letters of credit, (b) obligations evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or similar instruments, (c) capital lease obligations, and (d) Contingent Obligations.

“Indemnified Person” is defined in Section 12.3.

“Insolvency Proceeding” is any proceeding by or against any Person under the United States Bankruptcy Code, or any other bankruptcy or insolvency law, including assignments for the benefit of creditors, compositions, extensions generally with its creditors, or proceedings seeking reorganization, arrangement, or other relief.

 

42

“Intellectual Property” means, with respect to any Person, all of such Person’s right, title, and interest in and to the following:

(a) its Copyrights, Trademarks and Patents;

(b) any and all trade secrets and trade secret rights, including, without limitation, any rights to unpatented inventions, know-how and operating manuals;

(c) any and all source code;

(d) any and all design rights;

(e) any and all claims for damages by way of past, present and future infringement of any of the foregoing, with the right, but not the obligation, to sue for and collect such damages for said use or infringement of the Intellectual Property rights identified above; and

(f) all amendments, renewals and extensions of any of the Copyrights, Trademarks or Patents.

“Intellectual Property Security Agreement” means the Intellectual Property Security Agreement dated as of the Effective Date between the Borrower and Agent, as the same may from time to time be amended, restated, modified or otherwise supplemented.

“Inventory” is all “inventory” as defined in the Code in effect on the date hereof with such additions to such term as may hereafter be made, and includes without limitation all merchandise, raw materials, parts, supplies, packing and shipping materials, work in process and finished products, including without limitation such inventory as is temporarily out of Borrower’s custody or possession or in transit and including any returned goods and any documents of title representing any of the above.

“Investment” is any beneficial ownership interest in any Person (including stock, partnership interest or other securities), any loan, advance or capital contribution to any Person and any Acquisition.

“Key Person” is Borrower’s Chief Executive Officer. Peter Beck is the Chief Executive Officer of Parent as of the Effective Date.

“Lenders” is defined in the preamble hereof.

“Lien” is a claim, mortgage, deed of trust, levy, charge, pledge, security interest or other encumbrance of any kind, whether voluntarily incurred or arising by operation of law or otherwise against any property.

“Loan Documents” are, collectively, this Agreement and any schedules, exhibits, certificates, notices, and any other documents related to this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the Intellectual Property Security Agreement, the ACH Authorization, each guaranty, joinder agreement, general security deed, specific security deed, security agreement and pledge agreement referred to in Section 6.15(c), any subordination agreement, any note, or notes or guaranties executed by Borrower or any Guarantor, and any other present or future agreement by Borrower and/or any Guarantor with or for the benefit of Agent, in each case, that are related to this Agreement or the Term Loan Advances, all as amended, restated, or otherwise modified.

 

43

“Make Whole Amount” means, as of any date of prepayment of any of the Term Loan Advances on or prior to the Make Whole Termination Date, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the present value of all required interest payments due on such Term Loan Advances that are prepaid from the date of prepayment until the Make Whole Termination Date, discounted to the date of prepayment (assuming a 360-day year and actual days elapsed) at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Rate plus 0.25%, as reasonably calculated by Agent, assuming that the Term Loan Cash Interest Rate applicable to all such interest is the Term Loan Cash Interest Rate in effect on the date of such prepayment and, for the avoidance of doubt, taking into account all increases in the principal amount of the Term Loan Advances as a result of interest to be paid or to be paid in-kind pursuant to this Agreement (in each case, calculated, if applicable, at the Default Rate if an Event of Default exists at the time of the applicable prepayment or if the Term Loan Advances are accelerated (whether or not automatic)), plus (b) the Prepayment Charge.

“Make Whole Termination Date” is defined in Section 2.3(c)(i).

“Material Adverse Change” is (a) a material impairment in the perfection or priority of Agent’s Lien in the Collateral or in the value of such Collateral; (b) a material adverse change in the business, operations, or financial condition of Borrower; or (c) a material impairment of the prospect of repayment of any portion of the Obligations.

“Monthly Financial Statements” is defined in Section 6.2(b).

“Obligations” are Borrower’s obligations to pay when due any debts, principal, interest, fees, Expenses, the Prepayment Charge, the Facility Charge, the Due Diligence Fee, the End of Term Charge, any Make Whole Amount and other amounts Borrower owes Agent or any Lender now or later, in each case, under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, including, without limitation, all interest accruing after Insolvency Proceedings begin.

“Operating Documents” are, for any Person, such Person’s formation documents, as certified by the Secretary of State (or equivalent agency) of such Person’s jurisdiction of organization on a date that is no earlier than thirty (30) days prior to the Effective Date, and, (a) if such Person is a corporation, its bylaws in current form, (b) if such Person is a limited liability company, its limited liability company agreement (or similar agreement), and (c) if such Person is a partnership, its partnership agreement (or similar agreement), each of the foregoing with all current amendments or modifications thereto.

“Parent” is defined in the preamble.

“Patents” means all patents, patent applications and like protections including without limitation improvements, divisions, continuations, renewals, reissues, extensions and continuations-in-part of the same.

“Payment Date” is the first (1st) Business Day of each month.

 

44

“Payment/Advance Form” is that certain form in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C.

“Perfection Certificate” is defined in Section 5.1.

“Permitted Acquisition” means any Acquisition which is conducted in accordance with the following requirements:

(a) of a business or Person or product engaged in a line of business related to that of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries or reasonable extensions thereof; if such Acquisition is structured as a stock acquisition, then the Person so acquired shall either (i) become a wholly-owned Subsidiary of Borrower or of a Subsidiary and the Borrower shall comply, or cause such Subsidiary to comply, with Section 6.13 hereof or (ii) such Person shall be merged with and into Borrower or a Guarantor (with the Borrower or the Guarantor, as applicable, being the surviving entity);

(b) if such Acquisition is structured as the acquisition or in-licensing of assets, such assets shall be acquired by Borrower or a Guarantor, and shall be free and clear of Liens other than Permitted Liens;

(c) the Borrower shall have delivered to the Agent prior to the date of such Acquisition, notice of such Acquisition together with pro forma projected financial information, copies of all material documents relating to such acquisition, and, to the extent the purchase price for such Acquisition (computed pursuant to clause (e) below) is greater than Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000), historical financial statements for such acquired entity, division or line of business;

(d) both at the time of and immediately after such Acquisition, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and

(e) the sum of the purchase price of such proposed Acquisition, computed on the basis of total acquisition consideration paid or incurred, or to be paid or incurred, by Borrower with respect thereto, including the amount of Permitted Indebtedness assumed or to which such assets, businesses or business or ownership interest or shares, or any Person so acquired, is subject, shall not be greater than (i) for all such acquisitions in the aggregate in any fiscal year, the sum of (x) unrestricted (including, not subject to any redemption, clawback, escrow or similar encumbrance or restriction, but excluding any Liens of the type set forth in clause (a)(ii) or clause (i) of the definition of “Permitted Liens”) net cash proceeds from a bona fide equity financing consummated in connection with such Acquisition plus (y) Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) plus (z) the Remaining Specified Net Proceeds Amount and (ii) for all such acquisitions during the term of this Agreement, the sum of (x) unrestricted (including, not subject to any redemption, clawback, escrow or similar encumbrance or restriction, but excluding any Liens of the type set forth in clause (a)(ii) or clause (i) of the definition of “Permitted Liens”) net cash proceeds from a bona fide equity financing consummated in connection with such Acquisition plus (y) Twenty Million Dollars ($20,000,000) plus (z) the Remaining Specified Net Proceeds Amount.

 

45

“Permitted Indebtedness” is:

(a) Borrower’s Indebtedness to Agent or the Lenders under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents;

(b) Indebtedness existing on the Effective Date which is shown on the Perfection Certificate;

(c) Subordinated Debt;

(d) unsecured Indebtedness to trade creditors incurred in the ordinary course of business;

(e) Indebtedness incurred as a result of endorsing negotiable instruments received in the ordinary course of business;

(f) Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted under clauses (a) and (c) of the definition of “Permitted Liens” hereunder;

(g) (i) Indebtedness of Borrower or any secured Guarantor to any other Borrower or secured Guarantor hereunder, (ii) Indebtedness of any Subsidiaries that are not Borrowers or secured Guarantors hereunder to Borrower and/or a secured Guarantor in an aggregate outstanding principal amount not to exceed Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000), and (iii) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary that is not a Borrower or secured Guarantor hereunder to another Subsidiary that is not a Borrower or secured Guarantor hereunder;

(h) To the extent constituting Indebtedness, without duplication of any items specifically set forth in this definition of Permitted Indebtedness, Permitted Investments;

(i) Indebtedness in respect of performance bonds, bid bonds, appeal bonds and surety bonds in each case provided in the ordinary course of business;

(j) (i) up to Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) of unsecured Indebtedness in connection with corporate credit cards and letters of credit, and (ii) up to One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) of Indebtedness in connection with corporate credit cards and letters of credit that is secured by a lien on a corresponding amount of cash collateral (such cash Collateral not to exceed Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) in the aggregate at any time);

(k) Indebtedness in respect of netting services, overdraft protections and other customary bank products or otherwise in connection with deposit accounts in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000);

(l) other Indebtedness not otherwise permitted hereunder not to exceed Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) at any time outstanding; and

(m) extensions, refinancings, modifications, amendments and restatements of any items of Permitted Indebtedness (a) through (l) above, provided that the principal amount thereof is not increased or the terms thereof are not modified to impose more burdensome terms upon Borrower or its Subsidiary, as the case may be.

 

46

“Permitted Investments” are:

(a) Investments (including, without limitation, Subsidiaries) existing on the Effective Date which are shown on the Perfection Certificate;

(b) (i) Investments consisting of Cash Equivalents, and (ii) any Investments permitted by Borrower’s investment policy, as amended from time to time, provided that such investment policy (and any such amendments thereto) have been approved in advance, in writing, by Agent; provided that Agent shall, as soon as practicable, but no later than ten (10) Business Days after Agent receives from Borrower, a substantially final copy of any proposed amendment to Borrower’s investment policy, provide any comments, questions or approval of the same (as appropriate) to Borrower; provided, further, that to the extent Agent fails to provide any comments, questions or approval within such ten (10) Business Day period, Agent shall be deemed to have approved any such investment policy;

(c) Investments consisting of the endorsement of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection or similar transactions in the ordinary course of Borrower;

(d) Investments consisting of deposit accounts (but only to the extent that Borrower is permitted to maintain such accounts pursuant to Section 6.8(c) of this Agreement) in which Agent, to the extent required pursuant to Section 6.8, has a first priority perfected security interest;

(e) Investments accepted in connection with Transfers permitted by Section 7.1;

(f) Investments consisting of the creation of a Subsidiary for the purpose of consummating a merger transaction permitted by Section 7.3 of this Agreement, which is otherwise a Permitted Investment;

(g) Investments (i) by Borrower or any secured Guarantor in any other Borrower or secured Guarantor, (ii) by any Subsidiary that is not a Borrower or secured Guarantor in Borrower or any secured Guarantor, or (iii) by Borrower or any secured Guarantor in any Subsidiaries that are not Borrowers or secured Guarantors in the ordinary course of business to fund the ongoing day-to-day operations of such Subsidiaries, so long as such Investments are made on a cost-plus basis in accordance with intercompany services or transfer pricing agreements approved in advance, in writing by Agent; provided that Agent shall, as soon as practicable, but no later than ten (10) Business Days after Agent receives from Borrower, a substantially final copy of any proposed transfer pricing, intercompany services or similar arrangement, provide any comments, questions or approval of the same (as appropriate) to Borrower; provided, further, that to the extent Agent fails to provide any comments, questions or approval within such ten (10) Business Day period, Agent shall be deemed to have approved any such transfer pricing, intercompany services or similar arrangement;

(h) Investments consisting of (i) travel advances and employee relocation loans and other employee loans and advances in the ordinary course of business, and (ii) loans to employees, officers or directors relating to the purchase of equity securities of Borrower or its Subsidiaries pursuant to employee stock purchase plans or agreements approved by the Board;

 

47

(i) Investments (including debt obligations) received in connection with the bankruptcy or reorganization of customers or suppliers and in settlement of delinquent obligations of, and other disputes with, customers or suppliers arising in the ordinary course of business;

(j) Investments consisting of notes receivable of, or prepaid royalties and other credit extensions, to customers and suppliers who are not Affiliates, in the ordinary course of business; provided that this paragraph (j) shall not apply to Investments of Borrower in any Subsidiary;

(k) joint ventures or strategic alliances in the ordinary course of Borrower’s business consisting of the non-exclusive licensing of technology, the development of technology or the providing of technical support, provided that any cash investments by Borrower do not exceed Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) in the aggregate in any fiscal year; and

(l) Investments consisting of the formation and ownership of equity interests in Subsidiaries subject, at all times, to the requirements set forth in Section 6.13 hereof;

(m) Investments permitted pursuant to clauses (b), (g), (m) and (n) of the definition of Permitted Indebtedness;

(n) Permitted Acquisitions;

(o) the consummation of the transactions pursuant to the De-SPAC Agreement; and

(p) Investments not otherwise permitted in an aggregate amount of not more than Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) in each fiscal year.

“Permitted Liens” are:

(a) (i) Liens existing on the Effective Date which are shown on the Perfection Certificate or (ii) Liens in favor of Agent or the Lenders arising under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents;

(b) Liens for taxes, fees, assessments or other government charges or levies, either (i) not due and payable or (ii) being contested in good faith and for which Borrower maintains adequate reserves on Borrower’s Books, provided that no notice of any such Lien has been filed or recorded under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the Treasury Regulations adopted thereunder;

(c) purchase money Liens and capital leases (i) on Equipment acquired or held by Borrower incurred for financing the acquisition of the Equipment securing no more than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) in the aggregate amount outstanding (without duplication of clause (a)(i) above in this definition), or (ii) existing on Equipment when acquired, if the Lien is confined to the property and improvements and the proceeds of the Equipment;

(d) Liens of carriers, warehousemen, suppliers, or other Persons that are possessory in nature arising in the ordinary course of business so long as such Liens attach only to

 

48

Inventory, securing liabilities in the aggregate amount not to exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) and which are not delinquent or remain payable without penalty or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings which proceedings have the effect of preventing the forfeiture or sale of the property subject thereto;

(e) Liens to secure payment of workers’ compensation, employment insurance, old-age pensions, social security and other like obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business (other than Liens imposed by ERISA);

(f) leases or subleases of real property granted in the ordinary course of Borrower’s business (or, if referring to another Person, in the ordinary course of such Person’s business), and leases, subleases, non-exclusive licenses or sublicenses of personal property (other than Intellectual Property) granted in the ordinary course of Borrower’s business (or, if referring to another Person, in the ordinary course of such Person’s business), if the leases, subleases, licenses and sublicenses do not prohibit granting Agent a security interest therein;

(g) non-exclusive licenses of Intellectual Property granted to third parties in the ordinary course of business, and licenses of Intellectual Property that could not result in a legal transfer of title of the licensed property that may be exclusive in respects other than territory and that may be exclusive as to territory only as to discreet geographical areas outside of the United States;

(h) Liens arising from attachments or judgments, orders, or decrees in circumstances not constituting an Event of Default under Sections 8.4 and 8.7;

(i) Liens in favor of other financial institutions arising in connection with Borrower’s deposit and/or securities accounts held at such institutions, provided that (i) to the extent required pursuant to Section 6.8, Agent has a first priority perfected security interest in the amounts held in such deposit and/or securities accounts (ii) such accounts are permitted to be maintained pursuant to Section 6.8(c) of this Agreement;

(j) Deposits to secure the performance of bids, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, in each case, incurred in the ordinary course of business;

(k) the following deposits, to the extent made in the ordinary course of business: deposits under worker’s compensation, unemployment insurance, social security and other similar laws, or to secure statutory obligations (other than Liens arising under ERISA or environmental Liens);

(l) Liens securing claims or demands of materialmen, artisans, mechanics, carriers, warehousemen, and landlords arising and imposed without enforcement action of such parties;

(m) Liens securing Subordinated Debt;

(n) Liens of financial institutions on up to One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) in the aggregate of Borrower’s or its Subsidiaries’ cash (in addition to Liens on any deposit accounts in which such cash is held) securing corporate credit card obligations and letters of credit of Borrower or its Subsidiaries; and

 

49

(o) Liens incurred in the extension, renewal or refinancing of the Indebtedness secured by Liens described in (a) through (n), but any extension, renewal or replacement Lien must be limited to the property encumbered by the existing Lien and the principal amount of the indebtedness may not increase.

“Person” is any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, company, trust, unincorporated organization, association, corporation, institution, public benefit corporation, firm, joint stock company, estate, entity or government agency.

“PIPE Investment” has the meaning set forth in the De-SPAC Agreement.

“Pledge Agreement” means the Pledge Agreement dated as of the Effective Date between Borrower and Agent, as the same may from time to time be amended, restated, modified or otherwise supplemented.

“Prepayment Charge” is, with respect to any prepayment, refinancing, substitution or replacement of the Term Loan Advances prior to the Term Loan Maturity Date, whether by mandatory or voluntary prepayment, acceleration or otherwise (including, but not limited to, upon the occurrence of a bankruptcy or insolvency event (including the acceleration of claims by operation of law)), a fee payable to the Lenders in amount equal to 1.0% of the principal amount of the Term Loan Advances being prepaid.

“Prime Rate” is the rate of interest per annum from time to time published in the money rates section of The Wall Street Journal or any successor publication thereto as the “prime rate” then in effect; provided that, in the event such rate of interest is less than zero, such rate shall be deemed to be zero for purposes of this Agreement.

“Qualified IPO” means (a) the issuance by Borrower of its equity securities in a Subsequent Financing constituting an underwritten primary public offering pursuant to an effective registration statement filed with the SEC in accordance with the Exchange Act, (b) the closing of the transactions contemplated by the De-SPAC Agreement or (c) the closing of a business combination between Borrower and a blank check company formed for the purpose of effecting a business combination (or one of its Subsidiaries) following which a class of common equity securities of Borrower (or its parent following such business combination) is listed on a national securities exchange.

“Quarterly Financial Statements” is defined in Section 6.2(c).

“Register” is defined in Section 12.2.

“Registered Organization” is any “registered organization” as defined in the Code with such additions to such term as may hereafter be made.

 

50

“Remaining Specified Net Proceeds Amount” means, as of a date of consummation of a given Acquisition, (x) the Total Specified Net Proceeds Amount minus (y) the aggregate amount of all Utilized Specified Net Proceeds for all prior Acquisitions.

“Repayment Charges” is defined in Section 2.6(f).

“Requirement of Law” is as to any Person, the organizational or governing documents of such Person, and any law (statutory or common), treaty, rule or regulation or determination of an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.

“Responsible Officer” is any of the Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer and Controller of Borrower.

“RL Global” is defined in the preamble hereof.

“Rocket Canada” means Rocket Lab Space Systems Inc.

“Rocket NZ” means Rocket Lab Limited.

“SEC” shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission, any successor thereto, and any analogous Governmental Authority.

“Securities Account” is any “securities account” as defined in the Code with such additions to such term as may hereafter be made.

“Subordinated Debt” is indebtedness incurred by Borrower subordinated to all of Borrower’s now or hereafter indebtedness under this Agreement and any Loan Document (pursuant to a subordination, intercreditor, or other similar agreement in form and substance satisfactory to Agent, in its good faith business judgment, entered into between Agent and the other creditor), on terms acceptable to Agent, in its good faith business judgment.

“Subsequent Financing” means the next Borrower financing for which definitive agreements are entered into after the Effective Date and prior to the date of a Qualified IPO and results in aggregate proceeds to Borrower of at least $50,000,000, excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, the PIPE Investment.

“Subsidiary” is, as to any Person, a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity of which shares of stock or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power (other than stock or such other ownership interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such corporation, partnership or other entity are at the time owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless the context otherwise requires, each reference to a Subsidiary herein shall be a reference to a Subsidiary of Borrower.

“Term Loan Advance” and “Term Loan Advances” are each defined in Section 2.3(a) of this Agreement.

 

51

“Term Loan Cash Interest Rate” means for any day a floating per annum rate of interest equal to the greater of either (a) 8.15% or (b) (i) 8.15% plus (ii) the Prime Rate minus (iii) 3.25%.

“Term Loan Commitment” means as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender, if any, to make a Term Loan Advance to the Borrower in a principal amount not to exceed the amount set forth under the heading “Term Loan Commitment” opposite such Lender’s name on Schedule 1.1.

“Term Loan Line” is an aggregate principal amount equal to One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000).

“Term Loan Maturity Date” is June 1, 2024.

“Term Loan PIK Interest Rate” means 1.25%.

“Total Specified Net Proceeds Amount” means all unrestricted (including, not subject to any redemption, clawback, escrow or similar encumbrance or restriction, but excluding any Liens of the type set forth in clause (a)(ii) or clause (i) of the definition of “Permitted Liens”) net cash proceeds received from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the De-SPAC Agreement and/or, without duplication, from the consummation of the PIPE Investment, regardless of the fact that such net cash proceeds were not raised in connection with any certain Acquisition.

“Trademarks” means any trademark and servicemark rights, whether registered or not, applications to register and registrations of the same and like protections, and the entire goodwill of the business of Borrower connected with and symbolized by such trademarks.

“Transfer” is defined in Section 7.1.

“Treasury Rate” means a rate equal to the then-current yield to maturity on actually traded United States of America Treasury securities having a constant maturity and having a duration equal to (or nearest available tenor) the period from the date that prepayment is received to the date that falls on the Term Loan Maturity Date.

“Utilized Specified Net Proceeds” means, with respect to a given Acquisition, without duplication, (a) with respect to clause (e)(i) of the definition of “Permitted Acquisition”, the amount utilized in clause (e)(i)(z) of the definition of “Permitted Acquisition” for such Acquisition, and (b) with respect to clause (e)(ii) of the definition of “Permitted Acquisition”, the amount utilized in clause (e)(ii)(z) of the definition of “Permitted Acquisition” for such Acquisition.

[Balance of Page Left Intentionally Blank]

 

52

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the Effective Date.

 
		
BORROWER:
ROCKET LAB USA, INC.
	
By: 	  	/s/ Peter Beck

Name:
	  	Peter Beck

Title:
	  	Chief Executive Officer
ROCKET LAB GLOBAL SERVICES, LLC
	
By: 	  	/s/ Adam Spice

Name:
	  	Adam Spice

Title:
	  	Chief Executive Officer

[Signature Page to Loan and Security Agreement]

		
AGENT:
HERCULES CAPITAL, INC.
	
By: 	  	/s/ Jennifer Choe

Name:
	  	Jennifer Choe

Title:
	  	Associate General Counsel
LENDERS:
HERCULES CAPITAL, INC.
	
By: 	  	/s/ Jennifer Choe

Name:
	  	Jennifer Choe

Title:
	  	Associate General Counsel

[Signature Page to Loan and Security Agreement]

SCHEDULE 1.1

TERM LOAN COMMITMENTS

 
		
LENDER 	   	TERM LOAN COMMITMENT
  	 
HERCULES CAPITAL, INC. 	   	$100,000,000
  	 
TOTAL TERM LOAN COMMITMENTS: 	   	$100,000,000

EXHIBIT A

COLLATERAL DESCRIPTION

EXHIBIT B

COMPLIANCE STATEMENT

EXHIBIT C

LOAN PAYMENT/ADVANCE REQUEST FORM

EXHIBIT D

ACH DEBIT AUTHORIZATION AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT E-1

FORM OF U.S. TAX COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE

EXHIBIT E-2

FORM OF U.S. TAX COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE

ADDENDUM 1 to LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

TAXES; INCREASED COSTS

 
1. 	

Defined Terms. For purposes of this Addendum 1:

 
  	a. 	

“Connection Income Taxes” means Other Connection Taxes that are imposed on or measured by net income (however denominated) or that are franchise Taxes or branch profits Taxes.

 
  	b. 	

“Excluded Taxes” means any of the following Taxes imposed on or with respect to a Recipient or required to be withheld or deducted from a payment to a Recipient, (i) Taxes imposed on or measured by net income (however denominated), franchise Taxes, and branch profits Taxes, in each case, (A) imposed as a result of such Recipient being organized under the laws of, or having its principal office or, in the case of any Lender, its applicable lending office located in, the jurisdiction imposing such Tax (or any political subdivision thereof) or (B) that are Other Connection Taxes, (ii) in the case of a Lender, U.S. federal withholding Taxes imposed on amounts payable to or for the account of such Lender with respect to an applicable interest in a Term Loan Advance or Term Loan Commitment pursuant to a law in effect on the date on which (A) such Lender acquires such interest in the Term Loan Advance or Term Loan Commitment (other than pursuant to an assignment request by Borrower under Section 11.b. of this Addendum 1) or (B) such Lender changes its lending office, except in each case to the extent that, pursuant to Section 2 or Section 4 of this Addendum 1, amounts with respect to such Taxes were payable either to such Lender’s assignor immediately before such Lender became a party hereto or to such Lender immediately before it changed its lending office, (iii) Taxes attributable to such Recipient’s failure to comply with Section 7 of this Addendum 1 and (iv) any withholding Taxes imposed under FATCA.

 
  	c. 	

“FATCA” means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Internal Revenue Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with), any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof, any agreements entered into pursuant to Section 1471(b)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, and any fiscal or regulatory legislation, rules or practices adopted pursuant to any intergovernmental agreement, treaty or convention among governmental authorities and implementing such Sections of the Internal Revenue Code.

 
  	d. 	

“Foreign Lender” means a Lender that is not a U.S. Person.

 
  	e. 	

“Indemnified Taxes” means (i) Taxes, other than Excluded Taxes, imposed on or with respect to any payment made by or on account of any obligation of Borrower under any Loan Document and (ii) to the extent not otherwise described in clause (i), Other Taxes.

 
  	f. 	

“Internal Revenue Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

  	g. 	

“Other Connection Taxes” means, with respect to any Recipient, Taxes imposed as a result of a present or former connection between such Recipient and the jurisdiction imposing such Tax (other than connections arising from such Recipient having executed, delivered, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to or enforced any Loan Document, or sold or assigned an interest in any Term Loan Advance or Loan Document).

 
  	h. 	

“Other Taxes” means all present or future stamp, court or documentary, intangible, recording, filing or similar Taxes that arise from any payment made under, from the execution, delivery, performance, enforcement or registration of, from the receipt or perfection of a security interest under, or otherwise with respect to, any Loan Document, except any such Taxes that are Other Connection Taxes imposed with respect to an assignment (other than an assignment made pursuant to Section 11.b. of this Addendum 1).

 
  	i. 	

“Recipient” means the Agent or any Lender, as applicable.

 
  	j. 	

“Taxes” means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings (including backup withholding), assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any governmental authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto

 
  	k. 	

“U.S. Person” means any Person that is a “United States person” as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code.

 
  	l. 	

“Withholding Agent” means Borrower and the Agent.

 
2. 	

Payments Free of Taxes. Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of Borrower under any Loan Document shall be made without deduction or withholding for any Taxes, except as required by applicable law. If any applicable law (as determined in the good faith discretion of an applicable Withholding Agent) requires the deduction or withholding of any Tax from any such payment by a Withholding Agent, then the applicable Withholding Agent shall be entitled to make such deduction or withholding and shall timely pay the full amount deducted or withheld to the relevant governmental authority in accordance with applicable law and, if such Tax is an Indemnified Tax, then the sum payable by Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after such deduction or withholding has been made (including such deductions and withholdings applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2 or Section 4 of this Addendum 1) the applicable Recipient receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deduction or withholding been made.

 
3. 	

Payment of Other Taxes by Borrower. Borrower shall timely pay to the relevant governmental authority in accordance with applicable law, or at the option of the Agent timely reimburse it for the payment of, any Other Taxes.

 
4. 	

Indemnification by Borrower. Borrower shall indemnify each Recipient, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under Section 2 of this

  	Addendum 1 or this Section 4) payable or paid by such Recipient or required to be withheld or deducted from a payment to such Recipient and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant governmental authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Agent), or by the Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error. In addition, Borrower agrees to pay, and to save the Agent and any Lender harmless from, any and all liabilities with respect to, or resulting from any delay in paying, any and all excise, sales or other similar taxes (excluding taxes imposed on or measured by the net income of the Agent or such Lender) that may be payable or determined to be payable with respect to any of the Collateral or this Agreement.

 
5. 	

Indemnification by the Lenders. Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Agent, within 10 days after demand therefor, for (a) any Indemnified Taxes attributable to such Lender (but only to the extent that Borrower has not already indemnified the Agent for such Indemnified Taxes and without limiting the obligation of Borrower to do so) and (b) any Excluded Taxes attributable to such Lender, in each case, that are payable or paid by the Agent in connection with any Loan Document, and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant governmental authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to any Lender by the Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Each Lender hereby authorizes the Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender under any Loan Document or otherwise payable by the Agent to the Lender from any other source against any amount due to the Agent under this Section 5.

 
6. 	

Evidence of Payments. As soon as practicable after any payment of Taxes by Borrower to a governmental authority pursuant to the provisions of this Addendum 1, Borrower shall deliver to the Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such governmental authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Agent.

 
7. 	

Status of Lenders.

 
  	a. 	

Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding Tax with respect to payments made under any Loan Document shall deliver to Borrower and the Agent, at the time or times reasonably requested by Borrower or the Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation reasonably requested by Borrower or the Agent as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if reasonably requested by Borrower or the Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by Borrower or the Agent as will enable Borrower or the Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding two sentences, the completion, execution and submission of such documentation (other than such documentation set forth in Sections 7(b)(i), 7(b)(ii) and 7(b)(iv) of this Addendum 1) shall not be required if in the Lender’s reasonable judgment such completion, execution or submission would subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense or would materially prejudice the legal or commercial position of such Lender.

  	b. 	

Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,

 
  	i. 	

any Lender that is a U.S. Person shall deliver to Borrower and the Agent on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of Borrower or the Agent), executed copies of IRS Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is exempt from U.S. federal backup withholding tax;

 
  	ii. 	

any Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it is legally entitled to do so, deliver to Borrower and the Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of Borrower or the Agent), whichever of the following is applicable:

 
  	A. 	

in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party (x) with respect to payments of interest under any Loan Document, executed copies of IRS Form W-8BEN or IRS Form W-8BEN-E establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. federal withholding Tax pursuant to the “interest” article of such tax treaty and (y) with respect to any other applicable payments under any Loan Document, IRS Form W-8BEN or IRS Form W-8BEN-E establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. federal withholding Tax pursuant to the “business profits” or “other income” article of such tax treaty;

 
  	B. 	

executed copies of IRS Form W-8ECI;

 
  	C. 	

in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, (x) a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit E-1 to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not a “bank” within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, a “10 percent shareholder” of Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a “controlled foreign corporation” related to Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code (a “U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate”) and (y) executed copies of IRS Form W-8BEN or IRS Form W-8BEN-E; or

 
  	D. 	

to the extent a Foreign Lender is not the beneficial owner, executed copies of IRS Form W-8IMY, accompanied by IRS Form W-8ECI, IRS Form W-8BEN, IRS Form W-8BEN-E, IRS Form W-9, and/or other certification documents from each beneficial owner, as applicable; provided that if the Foreign Lender is a partnership and one

  	or more direct or indirect partners of such Foreign Lender are claiming the portfolio interest exemption, such Foreign Lender may provide a U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit E-2 on behalf of each such direct and indirect partner;

 
  	iii. 	

any Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it is legally entitled to do so, deliver to Borrower and the Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of Borrower or the Agent), executed copies of any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in U.S. federal withholding Tax, duly completed, together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit Borrower or the Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made; and

 
  	iv. 	

if a payment made to a Lender under any Loan Document would be subject to U.S. federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to Borrower and the Agent at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by Borrower or the Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by Borrower or the Agent as may be necessary for Borrower and the Agent to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender’s obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount, if any, to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this clause (iv), “FATCA” shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.

 
  	c. 	

Each Lender agrees that if any form or certification it previously delivered expires or becomes obsolete or inaccurate in any respect, it shall update such form or certification or promptly notify Borrower and the Agent in writing of its legal inability to do so.

 
8. 	

Treatment of Certain Refunds. If any party determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that it has received a refund of any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified pursuant to the provisions of this Addendum 1 (including by the payment of additional amounts pursuant to the provisions of this Addendum 1), it shall pay to the indemnifying party an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made under the provisions of this Addendum 1 with respect to the Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses (including Taxes) of such indemnified party and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant governmental authority with respect to such refund). Such indemnifying party, upon the request of such indemnified party, shall repay to such indemnified party the amount paid over pursuant to this Section 8 (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant governmental authority) in the event that

  	such indemnified party is required to repay such refund to such governmental authority. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 8, in no event will the indemnified party be required to pay any amount to an indemnifying party pursuant to this Section 8 the payment of which would place the indemnified party in a less favorable net after-Tax position than the indemnified party would have been in if the Tax subject to indemnification and giving rise to such refund had not been deducted, withheld or otherwise imposed and the indemnification payments or additional amounts with respect to such Tax had never been paid. This Section 8 shall not be construed to require any indemnified party to make available its Tax returns (or any other information relating to its Taxes that it deems confidential) to the indemnifying party or any other Person.

 
9. 	

Increased Costs. If any change in applicable law shall subject any Recipient to any Taxes (other than (A) Indemnified Taxes, (B) Taxes described in clauses (ii) through (iv) of the definition of Excluded Taxes and (C) Connection Income Taxes) on its loans, loan principal, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto, and the result shall be to increase the cost to such Recipient of making, converting to, continuing or maintaining any Term Loan Advance or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Term Loan Advance, or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Recipient (whether of principal, interest or any other amount), then, upon the request of such Recipient, Borrower will pay to such Recipient such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Recipient for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.

 
10. 	

Survival. Each party’s obligations under the provisions of this Addendum 1 shall survive the resignation or replacement of the Agent or any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender, the termination of the Term Loan Commitment and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all obligations under any Loan Document.

 
11. 	

Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.

 
  	a. 	

Designation of a different Lending Office. If any Lender requests compensation under Section 9 of this Addendum 1, or requires Borrower to pay any Indemnified Taxes or additional amounts to any Lender or Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to this Addendum 1, then such Lender shall (at the request of Borrower) use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Term Loan Advances hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to this Addendum 1 in the future, and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.

 
  	b. 	

Replacement of Lenders. If any Lender requests compensation under Section 9 of this Addendum 1, or if Borrower is required to pay any Indemnified Taxes or additional amounts to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to this Addendum 1 and, in each case, such Lender has declined or is unable

  	to designate a different lending office in accordance with Section 11.a. of this Addendum 1, then Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, Section 12.2 of this Agreement), all of its interests, rights (other than its existing rights to payments pursuant to this Addendum 1) and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); provided that:

 
  	i. 	

such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Term Loan Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);

 
  	ii. 	

in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 9 of this Addendum 1 or payments required to be made pursuant to this Addendum 1, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and

 
  	iii. 	

such assignment does not conflict with applicable law.

 
  	c. 	

A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.

ADDENDUM 2 to LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

AGENT AND LENDER TERMS

Each Lender hereby irrevocably appoints Hercules Capital, Inc. to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.

Each Lender agrees to indemnify the Agent in its capacity as such (to the extent not reimbursed by Borrower and without limiting the obligation of Borrower to do so), according to its respective Term Loan Commitment percentages (based upon the total outstanding Term Loan Commitments) in effect on the date on which indemnification is sought under this Addendum 2, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind whatsoever that may at any time be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of, this Agreement, any of the other Loan Documents or any documents contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or any action taken or omitted by the Agent under or in connection with any of the foregoing; The agreements in this Section shall survive the payment of the Term Loan Advances and all other amounts payable hereunder.

Agent in Its Individual Capacity. The Person serving as the Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent and the term “Lender” shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include each such Person serving as Agent hereunder in its individual capacity.

Exculpatory Provisions. The Agent shall have no duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent shall not:

be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether any default or any Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;

have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Lenders, provided that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and

except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and the Agent shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by any Person serving as the Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.

The Agent shall not be liable to any Lender for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Lenders or as the Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.

The Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Event of Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Agent.

Reliance by Agent. Agent may rely, and shall be fully protected in acting, or refraining to act, upon, any resolution, statement, certificate, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, bond or other paper or document that it has no reason to believe to be other than genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties or, in the case of cables, telecopies and telexes, to have been sent by the proper party or parties. In the absence of its gross negligence or willful misconduct, Agent may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to Agent and conforming to the requirements of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents. Agent may consult with counsel, and any opinion or legal advice of such counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, not taken or suffered by Agent hereunder or under any Loan Documents in accordance therewith. Agent shall have the right at any time to seek instructions concerning the administration of the Collateral from any court of competent jurisdiction. Agent shall not be under any obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers granted to Agent by this Agreement and the other Loan Documents at the request or direction of the Lenders unless Agent shall have been provided by the Lenders with adequate security and indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities that may be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.

